在线访问：https://duocet.ibiodiversity.net/index.php?title=%E4%B8%AD%E5%9B%BD%E6%A4%8D%E7%89%A9%E7%A7%91%E5%B1%9E%E5%90%8D%E5%BD%95

==1. 裸蒴苔目　Haplomitriales==
===1. [[裸蒴苔科]]　Haplomitriaceae Dedecek===
*1. '''[[裸蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Haplomitrium''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爪哇裸蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Calobryum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶裸蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Rhopalanthus''''' Lindb.
==2. 离瓣苔目　Treubiales==
===2. [[离瓣苔科]]　Treubiaceae Verd.===
*1. '''[[离瓣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(拟陶氏苔属)}}　'''''Apotreubia''''' S. Hatt. & Mizut.
*2. '''[[陶氏苔属]]'''　'''''Treubia''''' K. I. Goebel
==3. 壶苞苔目　Blasiales==
===3. [[壶苞苔科]]　Blasiaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[壶苞苔属]]'''　'''''Blasia''''' L.
==4. 半月苔目　Lunulariales==
===4. [[半月苔科]]　Lunulariaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[半月苔属]]'''　'''''Lunularia''''' Adans.
==5. 地钱目　Marchantiales==
===5. [[地钱科]]　Marchantiaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[地钱属]]'''　'''''Marchantia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Chlamidium''''' Corda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[背托苔属]]'''　'''''Preissia''''' Corda
===6. [[毛地钱科]]　Dumortieraceae D. G. Long===
*1. '''[[毛地钱属]]'''　'''''Dumortiera''''' Nees
===7. [[疣冠苔科]]　Aytoniaceae Cavers===
*1. '''[[薄地钱属]]'''　'''''Cryptomitrium''''' Austin ex Underw.
*2. '''[[疣冠苔属]]'''　'''''Mannia''''' Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西伯利亚疣冠苔属]]'''　'''''Arnelliella''''' C. Massal.
*3. '''[[花萼苔属]]'''　'''''Asterella''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卡西花萼苔属]]'''　'''''Octokepos''''' Griff.
*4. '''[[石地钱属]]'''　'''''Reboulia''''' Raddi
*5. '''[[紫背苔属]]'''　'''''Plagiochasma''''' Lehm. & Lindenb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小孔紫背苔属]]'''　'''''Aytonia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
===8. [[星孔苔科]]　Cleveaceae Cavers===
*1. '''[[无柄山苔属]]'''　'''''Aitchisoniella''''' Kashyap
*2. '''[[高山苔属]]'''　'''''Athalamia''''' Falc.
*3. '''[[星孔苔属]]'''　'''''Sauteria''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球孢星孔苔属]]'''　'''''Sauchia''''' Kashyap
*4. '''[[克氏苔属]]'''　'''''Clevea''''' Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小克氏苔属]]'''　'''''Gollaniella''''' Steph.
*5. '''[[月鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Peltolepis''''' Lindb.
===9. [[蛇苔科]]　Conocephalaceae Müll. Frib. ex Grolle===
*1. '''[[蛇苔属]]'''　'''''Conocephalum''''' Hill
===10. [[钱苔科]]　Ricciaceae Rchb.===
*1. '''[[浮苔属]]'''　'''''Ricciocarpos''''' Corda
*2. '''[[钱苔属]]'''　'''''Riccia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉钱苔属]]'''　'''''Ricciella''''' A. Braun
===11. [[柑皮苔科]]　Wiesnerellaceae Inoue===
*1. '''[[柑皮苔属]]''' {{Sm|(魏氏苔属)}}　'''''Wiesnerella''''' Schiffn.
===12. [[皮叶苔科]]　Targioniaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[皮叶苔属]]'''　'''''Targionia''''' L.
===13. [[单月苔科]]　Monosoleniaceae Inoue===
*1. '''[[单月苔属]]'''　'''''Monosolenium''''' Griff.
===14. [[光苔科]]　Cyathodiaceae Stotler & Crand.-Stotl.===
*1. '''[[光苔属]]'''　'''''Cyathodium''''' Kunze ex Lehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄光苔属]]'''　'''''Synhymenium''''' Griff.
===15. [[花地钱科]]　Corsiniaceae Engl.===
*1. '''[[花地钱属]]'''　'''''Corsinia''''' Raddi
*2. '''[[突苞苔属]]''' {{Sm|(短托苔属)}}　'''''Exormotheca''''' Mitt.
==6. 溪苔目　Pelliales==
===16. [[溪苔科]]　Pelliaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[溪苔属]]'''　'''''Pellia''''' Raddi
==7. 小叶苔目　Fossombroniales==
===17. [[南溪苔科]]　Makinoaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[南溪苔属]]'''　'''''Makinoa''''' Miyake
===18. [[苞片苔科]]　Calyculariaceae He-Nygrén, Juslén, Ahonen, Glenny & Piippo===
*1. '''[[苞片苔属]]'''　'''''Calycularia''''' Mitt.
===19. [[小叶苔科]]　Fossombroniaceae Hazsl.===
*1. '''[[小叶苔属]]'''　'''''Fossombronia''''' Raddi
==8. 带叶苔目　Pallaviciniales==
===20. [[波叶苔科]]　Moerckiaceae K. I. Goebel ex Stotler & Crand.-Stotl.===
*1. '''[[拟带叶苔属]]'''　'''''Hattorianthus''''' R. M. Schust. & Inoue
===21. [[带叶苔科]]　Pallaviciniaceae Mig.===
*1. '''[[带叶苔属]]'''　'''''Pallavicinia''''' Gray
==9. 紫叶苔目　Pleuroziales==
===22. [[紫叶苔科]]　Pleuroziaceae Müll. Frib.===
*1. '''[[紫叶苔属]]'''　'''''Pleurozia''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟紫叶苔属]]'''　'''''Eopleurozia''''' R. M. Schust.
==10. 叉苔目　Metzgeriales==
===23. [[绿片苔科]]　Aneuraceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[绿片苔属]]'''　'''''Aneura''''' Dumort.
*2. '''[[宽片苔属]]'''　'''''Lobatiriccardia''''' (Mizut. & S. Hatt.) Furuki
*3. '''[[片叶苔属]]'''　'''''Riccardia''''' Gray
===24. [[叉苔科]]　Metzgeriaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[毛叉苔属]]'''　'''''Apometzgeria''''' Kuwah.
*2. '''[[叉苔属]]'''　'''''Metzgeria''''' Raddi
==11. 毛叶苔目　Ptilidiales==
===25. [[新绒苔科]]　Neotrichocoleaceae Inoue===
*1. '''[[新绒苔属]]'''　'''''Neotrichocolea''''' S. Hatt.
*2. '''[[囊绒苔属]]'''　'''''Trichocoleopsis''''' S. Okamura
===26. [[毛叶苔科]]　Ptilidiaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[毛叶苔属]]'''　'''''Ptilidium''''' Nees
==12. 光萼苔目　Porellales==
===27. [[光萼苔科]]　Porellaceae Cavers===
*1. '''[[耳坠苔属]]'''　'''''Ascidiota''''' C. Massal.
*2. '''[[多瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Macvicaria''''' W. E. Nicholson
*3. '''[[光萼苔属]]'''　'''''Porella''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[温带光萼苔属]]'''　'''''Antoiria''''' Raddi
===28. [[扁萼苔科]]　Radulaceae Müll. Frib.===
*1. '''[[扁萼苔属]]'''　'''''Radula''''' Dumort.
===29. [[耳叶苔科]]　Frullaniaceae Lorch===
*1. '''[[耳叶苔属]]'''　'''''Frullania''''' Raddi
===30. [[毛耳苔科]]　Jubulaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[毛耳苔属]]'''　'''''Jubula''''' Dumort.
*2. '''[[日鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Nipponolejeunea''''' S. Hatt.
===31. [[细鳞苔科]]　Lejeuneaceae Rostovzev===
*1. '''[[拟耳叶苔属]]'''　'''''Frullanoides''''' Raddi
*2. '''[[格氏苔属]]'''　'''''Gradsteinianthus''''' R. L. Zhu & Jian Wang bis
*3. '''[[尾鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Caudalejeunea''''' Schiffn.
*4. '''[[尼鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Schiffneriolejeunea''''' Verd.
*5. '''[[顶鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Acrolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瓦鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Trocholejeunea''''' Schiffn.
*6. '''[[黑鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Phaeolejeunea''''' Mizut.
*7. '''[[冠鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Lopholejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
*8. '''[[鞭鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Mastigolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*9. '''[[毛鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Thysananthus''''' Lindenb.
*10. '''[[异鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Tuzibeanthus''''' S. Hatt.
*11. '''[[皱萼苔属]]'''　'''''Ptychanthus''''' Nees
*12. '''[[多褶苔属]]'''　'''''Spruceanthus''''' Verd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Phragmolejeunea''''' Schiffn.
*13. '''[[刺鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Acanthocoleus''''' R. M. Schust.
*14. '''[[唇鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Cheilolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[淡叶苔属]]'''　'''''Euosmolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Leucolejeunea''''' A. Evans
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纽鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Strepsilejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*15. '''[[高鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Gaolejeunea''''' R. L. Zhu & W. Ye
*16. '''[[密鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Pycnolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*17. '''[[薄鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Leptolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
*18. '''[[角萼苔属]]'''　'''''Ceratolejeunea''''' (Spruce) J. B. Jack & Steph.
*19. '''[[角鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Drepanolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本角鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Ophthalmolejeunea''''' (R. M. Schust.) R. M. Schust.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[针鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Rhaphidolejeunea''''' Herzog
*20. '''[[双鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Diplasiolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*21. '''[[鞍叶苔属]]'''　'''''Tuyamaella''''' S. Hatt.
*22. '''[[疣鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Cololejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Aphanolejeunea''''' A. Evans
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Campylolejeunea''''' S. Hatt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Chondriolejeunea''''' (Benedix) G. Kis & Pócs
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[残叶苔属]]'''　'''''Leptocolea''''' (Spruce) A. Evans
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[片鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Pedinolejeunea''''' (Benedix ex Mizut.) P. C. Chen & P. C. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Physocolea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Taeniolejeunea''''' Zwickel
*23. '''[[管叶苔属]]'''　'''''Colura''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Colurolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*24. '''[[镰叶苔属]]'''　'''''Harpalejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*25. '''[[纤鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Microlejeunea''''' (Spruce) Steph.
*26. '''[[细鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Lejeunea''''' Lib.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[湿鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Hygrolejeunea''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Stenolejeunea''''' R. M. Schust.
*27. '''[[棘鳞苔属]]''' {{Sm|(棘鳞藓属)}}　'''''Dactylophorella''''' R. M. Schust.
*28. '''[[指鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Lepidolejeunea''''' R. M. Schust.
*29. '''[[苏鳞苔属]]''' {{Sm|(苏氏苔属)}}　'''''Soella''''' R. L. Zhu, L. Shu, Qiong He & Y. M. Wei
*30. '''[[假细鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Metalejeunea''''' Grolle
*31. '''[[耳鳞苔属]]'''　'''''Otolejeunea''''' Grolle & Tixier
*32. '''[[油肋苔属]]'''　'''''Vitalianthus''''' R. M. Schust. & Giancotti
==13. 叶苔目　Jungermanniales==
===32. [[歧舌苔科]]　Schistochilaceae H. Buch===
*1. '''[[歧舌苔属]]'''　'''''Schistochila''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Gottschea''''' Nees ex Mont.
===33. [[隐蒴苔科]]　Adelanthaceae Grolle===
*1. '''[[无萼苔属]]''' {{Sm|(短萼苔属)}}　'''''Wettsteinia''''' Schiffn.
*2. '''[[对耳苔属]]'''　'''''Syzygiella''''' Spruce
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶苔属]]'''　'''''Jamesoniella''''' (Spruce) Carrington
*3. '''[[兜叶苔属]]'''　'''''Denotarisia''''' Grolle
===34. [[挺叶苔科]]　Anastrophyllaceae L. S&ouml;derstr., De Roo & Hedd.===
*1. '''[[卷叶苔属]]'''　'''''Anastrepta''''' (Lindb.) Schiffn.
*2. '''[[挺叶苔属]]'''　'''''Anastrophyllum''''' (Spruce) Steph.
*3. '''[[细裂瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Barbilophozia''''' Loeske
*4. '''[[圆瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Biantheridion''''' (Grolle) Konstant. & Vilnet
*5. '''[[广萼苔属]]'''　'''''Chandonanthus''''' Mitt.
*6. '''[[拟卷叶苔属]]'''　'''''Hamatostrepta''''' Váňa & D. G. Long
*7. '''[[服部苔属]]'''　'''''Hattoria''''' R. M. Schust.
*8. '''[[等厚苔属]]'''　'''''Isopaches''''' H. Buch
*9. '''[[新直茎苔属]]'''　'''''Neoorthocaulis''''' L. S&ouml;derstr., De Roo & Hedd.
*10. '''[[直茎苔属]]'''　'''''Orthocaulis''''' H. Buch
*11. '''[[褶萼苔属]]'''　'''''Plicanthus''''' R. M. Schust.
*12. '''[[假裂叶苔属]]'''　'''''Pseudolophozia''''' Konstant. & Vilnet
*13. '''[[裂褶苔属]]'''　'''''Schizophyllopsis''''' Váňa & L. S&ouml;derstr.
*14. '''[[二裂瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Schljakovia''''' Konstant. & Vilnet
*15. '''[[四裂瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Schljakovianthus''''' Konstant. & Vilnet
*16. '''[[拟折瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Sphenolobopsis''''' R. M. Schust. & N. Kitag.
*17. '''[[小广萼苔属]]'''　'''''Tetralophozia''''' (R. M. Schust.) Schljakov
===35. [[大萼苔科]]　Cephaloziaceae Mig.===
*1. '''[[柱萼苔属]]'''　'''''Alobiellopsis''''' R. M. Schust.
*2. '''[[大萼苔属]]'''　'''''Cephalozia''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*3. '''[[拳叶苔属]]'''　'''''Nowellia''''' Mitt.
*4. '''[[侧枝苔属]]'''　'''''Pleurocladula''''' Grolle
*5. '''[[裂齿苔属]]'''　'''''Odontoschisma''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝叶苔属]]'''　'''''Cladopodiella''''' H. Buch
*6. '''[[塔叶苔属]]'''　'''''Schiffneria''''' Steph.
===36. [[拟大萼苔科]]　Cephaloziellaceae Douin===
*1. '''[[拟大萼苔属]]'''　'''''Cephaloziella''''' (Spruce) Schiffn.
*2. '''[[筒萼苔属]]'''　'''''Cylindrocolea''''' R. M. Schust.
*3. '''[[戈氏苔属]]'''　'''''Gottschelia''''' Grolle
*4. '''[[秃瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Obtusifolium''''' S. W. Arnell
===37. [[裂叶苔科]]　Lophoziaceae Cavers===
*1. '''[[裂叶苔属]]'''　'''''Lophozia''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*2. '''[[拟裂叶苔属]]'''　'''''Lophoziopsis''''' Konstant. & Vilnet
*3. '''[[三裂苔属]]'''　'''''Trilophozia''''' (R. M. Schust.) Bakalin
*4. '''[[三瓣苔属]]'''　'''''Tritomaria''''' Schiffn. ex Loeske
===38. [[合叶苔科]]　Scapaniaceae Mig.===
*1. '''[[折叶苔属]]'''　'''''Diplophyllum''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*2. '''[[蜡叶苔属]]'''　'''''Douinia''''' (C. E. O. Jensen) H. Buch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大褶蜡叶苔属]]'''　'''''Macrodiplophyllum''''' (H. Buch) Perss.
*3. '''[[合叶苔属]]'''　'''''Scapania''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长尖合叶苔属]]'''　'''''Scapaniella''''' H. Buch
*4. '''[[拟歧舌苔属]]'''　'''''Schistochilopsis''''' (N. Kitag.) Konstant.
===39. [[睫毛苔科]]　Blepharostomataceae W. Frey & M. Stech===
*1. '''[[睫毛苔属]]'''　'''''Blepharostoma''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
===40. [[剪叶苔科]]　Herbertaceae Müll. Frib. ex Fulford & Hatcher===
*1. '''[[剪叶苔属]]'''　'''''Herbertus''''' Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Herpocladium''''' Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Schisma''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Sendtnera''''' Endl.
===41. [[复叉苔科]]　Lepicoleaceae R. M. Schust.===
*1. '''[[复叉苔属]]'''　'''''Lepicolea''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Leperoma''''' Mitt.
===42. [[指叶苔科]]　Lepidoziaceae Limpr.===
*1. '''[[细鞭苔属]]'''　'''''Acromastigum''''' A. Evans
*2. '''[[鞭苔属]]'''　'''''Bazzania''''' Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Mastigobryum''''' (Nees) Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Pleuroschisma''''' Dumort.
*3. '''[[细指苔属]]'''　'''''Kurzia''''' G. Martens
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Microlepidozia''''' (Spruce) J&oslash;rg.
*4. '''[[指叶苔属]]'''　'''''Lepidozia''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*5. '''[[新指叶苔属]]'''　'''''Neolepidozia''''' Fulford & J. Taylor
*6. '''[[虫叶苔属]]'''　'''''Zoopsis''''' (Hook. f. & Taylor) Gottsche, Lindenb. & Nees
===43. [[齿萼苔科]]　Lophocoleaceae Müll. Frib. ex Vanden Berghen===
*1. '''[[裂萼苔属]]'''　'''''Chiloscyphus''''' Corda
*2. '''[[异萼苔属]]'''　'''''Heteroscyphus''''' Schiffn.
*3. '''[[薄萼苔属]]'''　'''''Leptoscyphus''''' Mitt.
===44. [[须苔科]]　Mastigophoraceae R. M. Schust.===
*1. '''[[须苔属]]'''　'''''Mastigophora''''' Nees
===45. [[羽苔科]]　Plagiochilaceae Müll. Frib.===
*1. '''[[羽苔属]]'''　'''''Plagiochila''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*2. '''[[树羽苔属]]'''　'''''Chiastocaulon''''' Carl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对羽苔属]]'''　'''''Plagiochilion''''' S. Hatt.
*3. '''[[平叶苔属]]'''　'''''Pedinophyllum''''' (Lindb.) Lindb.
===46. [[拟复叉苔科]]　Pseudolepicoleaceae Fulford & J. Taylor===
*1. '''[[拟复叉苔属]]'''　'''''Pseudolepicolea''''' Fulford & J. Taylor
*2. '''[[裂片苔属]]'''　'''''Temnoma''''' Mitt. & Hook. f.
===47. [[绒苔科]]　Trichocoleaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[绒苔属]]'''　'''''Trichocolea''''' Dumort.
===48. [[小萼苔科]]　Myliaceae Schljakov===
*1. '''[[华萼苔属]]'''　'''''Sinomylia''''' P. C. Wu, Y. Jia & M. Z. Wang
*2. '''[[小萼苔属]]'''　'''''Mylia''''' Gray
===49. [[顶苞苔科]]　Acrobolbaceae E. A. Hodgs.===
*1. '''[[顶苞苔属]]'''　'''''Acrobolbus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Marsupidium''''' Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Tylimanthus''''' Mitt.
*2. '''[[拟囊萼苔属]]''' {{Sm|(拟蒴囊苔属)}}　'''''Saccogynidium''''' Grolle
===50. [[兔耳苔科]]　Antheliaceae R. M. Schust.===
*1. '''[[兔耳苔属]]'''　'''''Anthelia''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
===51. [[小袋苔科]]　Balantiopsidaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[直蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Isotachis''''' Mitt.
===52. [[护蒴苔科]]　Calypogeiaceae Arnell===
*1. '''[[护蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Calypogeia''''' Raddi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三角护蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Kantius''''' Gray
*2. '''[[假护蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Metacalypogeia''''' (S. Hatt.) Inoue
*3. '''[[疣胞苔属]]'''　'''''Mnioloma''''' Herzog
===53. [[地萼苔科]]　Geocalycaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[地萼苔属]]'''　'''''Geocalyx''''' Nees
===54. [[全萼苔科]]　Gymnomitriaceae H. Klinggr.===
*1. '''[[类钱袋苔属]]'''　'''''Apomarsupella''''' R. M. Schust.
*2. '''[[拟隐苞苔属]]'''　'''''Cryptocoleopsis''''' Amakawa
*3. '''[[全萼苔属]]'''　'''''Gymnomitrion''''' Corda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Acolea''''' Corda
*4. '''[[钱袋苔属]]'''　'''''Marsupella''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Sarcocyphos''''' Corda
*5. '''[[穗枝苔属]]'''　'''''Prasanthus''''' Lindb.
*6. '''[[被蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Nardia''''' Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密叶被蒴苔属]]'''　'''''Alicularia''''' Corda
===55. [[镰萼苔科]]　Harpanthaceae Arnell===
*1. '''[[镰萼苔属]]'''　'''''Harpanthus''''' Nees
===56. [[长胞苔科]]　Hygrobiellaceae Konstant. & Vilnet===
*1. '''[[长胞苔属]]'''　'''''Hygrobiella''''' Spruce
===57. [[甲克苔科]]　Jackiellaceae R. M. Schust.===
*1. '''[[甲克苔属]]'''　'''''Jackiella''''' Schiffn.
===58. [[叶苔科]]　Jungermanniaceae Rchb.===
*1. '''[[褶叶苔属]]'''　'''''Mesoptychia''''' (Lindb.) A. Evans
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无褶苔属]]'''　'''''Leiocolea''''' (Müll. Frib.) H. Buch
*2. '''[[湿生苔属]]'''　'''''Eremonotus''''' Lindb. & Kaal. ex Pearson
*3. '''[[叶苔属]]'''　'''''Jungermannia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮细叶苔属]]'''　'''''Aplozia''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*4. '''[[狭叶苔属]]'''　'''''Liochlaena''''' Nees
*5. '''[[黄羽苔属]]'''　'''''Xenochila''''' R. M. Schust.
*6. '''[[侧囊苔属]]'''　'''''Delavayella''''' Steph.
===59. [[假苞苔科]]　Notoscyphaceae Crand.-Stotl., Váňa & Stotler===
*1. '''[[假苞苔属]]''' {{Sm|(假蒴苞苔属，杯囊苔属)}}　'''''Notoscyphus''''' Mitt.
===60. [[囊萼苔科]]　Saccogynaceae Heeg===
*1. '''[[囊萼苔属]]''' {{Sm|(蒴囊苔属)}}　'''''Saccogyna''''' Dumort.
===61. [[管口苔科]]　Solenostomataceae Stotler & Crand.-Stotl.===
*1. '''[[疣叶苔属]]'''　'''''Horikawaella''''' S. Hatt. & Amakawa
*2. '''[[管口苔属]]'''　'''''Solenostoma''''' Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[截叶管口苔属]]'''　'''''Phragmatocolea''''' Grolle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Plectocolea''''' (Mitt.) Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶苔属]]'''　'''''Scaphophyllum''''' Inoue
===62. [[横叶苔科]]　Southbyaceae Váňa, Crand.-Stotl., Stotler & D. G. Long===
*1. '''[[对叶苔属]]'''　'''''Gongylanthus''''' Nees
*2. '''[[横叶苔属]]'''　'''''Southbya''''' Spruce
==14. 藻苔目　Takakiales==
===63. [[藻苔科]]　Takakiaceae M. Stech & W. Frey===
*1. '''[[藻苔属]]'''　'''''Takakia''''' S. Hatt. & Inoue
==15. 泥炭藓目　Sphagnales==
===64. [[绢炭藓科]]　Flatbergiaceae A. J. Shaw===
*1. '''[[绢炭藓属]]'''　'''''Flatbergium''''' A. J. Shaw
===65. [[泥炭藓科]]　Sphagnaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[泥炭藓属]]'''　'''''Sphagnum''''' L.
==16. 黑藓目　Andreaeales==
===66. [[黑藓科]]　Andreaeaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[黑藓属]]'''　'''''Andreaea''''' Hedw.
==17. 四齿藓目　Tetraphidales==
===67. [[四齿藓科]]　Tetraphidaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[四齿藓属]]'''　'''''Tetraphis''''' Hedw.
*2. '''[[小四齿藓属]]'''　'''''Tetrodontium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
==18. 长台藓目　Oedipodiales==
===68. [[长台藓科]]　Oedipodiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[长台藓属]]'''　'''''Oedipodium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
==19. 金发藓目　Polytrichales==
===69. [[金发藓科]]　Polytrichaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[异蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Lyellia''''' R. Br.
*2. '''[[小赤藓属]]'''　'''''Oligotrichum''''' DC.
*3. '''[[拟金发藓属]]'''　'''''Polytrichastrum''''' G. L. Sm.
*4. '''[[拟赤藓属]]'''　'''''Psilopilum''''' Brid.
*5. '''[[仙鹤藓属]]'''　'''''Atrichum''''' P. Beauv.
*6. '''[[金发藓属]]'''　'''''Polytrichum''''' Hedw.
*7. '''[[小金发藓属]]'''　'''''Pogonatum''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Catharinella''''' (Müll. Hal.) Kindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[树发藓属]]'''　'''''Microdendron''''' Broth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新小金发藓属]]'''　'''''Neopogonatum''''' W. X. Xu & R. L. Xiong
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗发小金发藓属]]'''　'''''Racelopodopsis''''' Thér.
==20. 烟杆藓目　Buxbaumiales==
===70. [[烟杆藓科]]　Buxbaumiaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[烟杆藓属]]'''　'''''Buxbaumia''''' Hedw.
==21. 短颈藓目　Diphysciales==
===71. [[短颈藓科]]　Diphysciaceae M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[短颈藓属]]'''　'''''Diphyscium''''' D. Mohr
==22. 葫芦藓目　Funariales==
===72. [[大帽藓科]]　Encalyptaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[大帽藓属]]'''　'''''Encalypta''''' Hedw.
===73. [[葫芦藓科]]　Funariaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[拟短月藓属]]'''　'''''Brachymeniopsis''''' Broth.
*2. '''[[梨蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Entosthodon''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*3. '''[[葫芦藓属]]'''　'''''Funaria''''' Hedw.
*4. '''[[立碗藓属]]'''　'''''Physcomitrium''''' (Brid.) Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小立碗藓属]]'''　'''''Physcomitrella''''' Bruch & Schimp.
==23. 美姿藓目　Timmiales==
===74. [[美姿藓科]]　Timmiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[美姿藓属]]'''　'''''Timmia''''' Hedw.
==24. 对叶藓目　Distichiales==
===75. [[对叶藓科]]　Distichiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[对叶藓属]]'''　'''''Distichium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
===76. [[反纽藓科]]　Timmiellaceae Y. Inoue & H. Tsubota===
*1. '''[[芦氏藓属]]'''　'''''Luisierella''''' Thér. & P. de la Varde
*2. '''[[反纽藓属]]'''　'''''Timmiella''''' (De Not.) Limpr.
==25. 水石藓目　Scouleriales==
===77. [[扭茎藓科]]　Flexitrichaceae Ignatov & Fedosov===
*1. '''[[扭茎藓属]]'''　'''''Flexitrichum''''' Ignatov & Fedosov
===78. [[水石藓科]]　Scouleriaceae S. P. Churchill===
*1. '''[[水石藓属]]'''　'''''Scouleria''''' Hook.
===79. [[木衣藓科]]　Drummondiaceae Goffinet===
*1. '''[[木衣藓属]]'''　'''''Drummondia''''' Hook. ex Drumm.
==26. 虾藓目　Bryoxiphiales==
===80. [[虾藓科]]　Bryoxiphiaceae Besch.===
*1. '''[[虾藓属]]'''　'''''Bryoxiphium''''' Mitt.
==27. 无轴藓目　Archidiales==
===81. [[细蓑藓科]]　Micromitriaceae Smyth ex Goffinet & Budke===
*1. '''[[细蓑藓属]]'''　'''''Micromitrium''''' Austin
===82. [[无轴藓科]]　Archidiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[无轴藓属]]'''　'''''Archidium''''' Brid.
===83. [[白发藓科]]　Leucobryaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[曲柄藓属]]'''　'''''Campylopus''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Thysanomitrion''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*2. '''[[白发藓属]]'''　'''''Leucobryum''''' Hampe
*3. '''[[长帽藓属]]'''　'''''Atractylocarpus''''' Mitt.
*4. '''[[拟扭柄藓属]]'''　'''''Campylopodiella''''' Cardot
*5. '''[[白氏藓属]]'''　'''''Brothera''''' Müll. Hal.
*6. '''[[青毛藓属]]'''　'''''Dicranodontium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
==28. 紫萼藓目　Grimmiales==
===84. [[细叶藓科]]　Seligeriaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[小穗藓属]]'''　'''''Blindia''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*2. '''[[短齿藓属]]'''　'''''Brachydontium''''' Fürnr.
*3. '''[[拟小穗藓属]]'''　'''''Blindiadelphus''''' (Lindb.) Fedosov & Ignatov
===85. [[石缝藓科]]　Saelaniaceae Ignatov & Fedosov===
*1. '''[[石缝藓属]]'''　'''''Saelania''''' Lindb.
===86. [[缩叶藓科]]　Ptychomitriaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[小缩叶藓属]]''' {{Sm|(曲肋藓属)}}　'''''Campylostelium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*2. '''[[缩叶藓属]]'''　'''''Ptychomitrium''''' Fürnr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Brachysteleum''''' Rchb.
*3. '''[[缨齿藓属]]'''　'''''Jaffueliobryum''''' Thér.
*4. '''[[旱藓属]]'''　'''''Indusiella''''' Broth. & Müll. Hal.
===87. [[紫萼藓科]]　Grimmiaceae Arn.===
*1. '''[[矮齿藓属]]'''　'''''Bucklandiella''''' Roiv.
*2. '''[[无尖藓属]]'''　'''''Codriophorus''''' P. Beauv.
*3. '''[[筛齿藓属]]'''　'''''Coscinodon''''' Spreng.
*4. '''[[紫萼藓属]]'''　'''''Grimmia''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垫丛紫萼藓属]]'''　'''''Anodon''''' Rabenh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Guembelia''''' Hampe
*5. '''[[长齿藓属]]'''　'''''Niphotrichum''''' (Bedn.-Ochyra) Bedn.-Ochyra & Ochyra
*6. '''[[砂藓属]]'''　'''''Racomitrium''''' Brid.
*7. '''[[连轴藓属]]'''　'''''Schistidium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆蒴连轴藓属]]'''　'''''Apocarpum''''' P. Beauv.
==29. 曲尾藓目　Dicranales==
===88. [[花叶藓科]]　Calymperaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[八齿藓属]]'''　'''''Octoblepharum''''' Hedw.
*2. '''[[网藓属]]'''　'''''Syrrhopodon''''' Schw&auml;gr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Calymperopsis''''' (Müll. Hal.) M. Fleisch.
*3. '''[[拟外网藓属]]'''　'''''Exostratum''''' L. T. Ellis
*4. '''[[脆尖藓属]]'''　'''''Arthrocormus''''' Dozy & Molk.
*5. '''[[白睫藓属]]'''　'''''Leucophanes''''' Brid.
*6. '''[[匍网藓属]]'''　'''''Mitthyridium''''' H. Rob.
*7. '''[[花叶藓属]]'''　'''''Calymperes''''' Sw. ex F. Weber
===89. [[蔓枝藓科]]　Bryowijkiaceae M. Stech & W. Frey===
*1. '''[[蔓枝藓属]]'''　'''''Bryowijkia''''' Nog.
===90. [[石南藓科]]　Aongstroemiaceae De Not.===
*1. '''[[石南藓属]]''' {{Sm|(昂氏藓属)}}　'''''Aongstroemia''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*2. '''[[石松藓属]]''' {{Sm|(拟昂氏藓属)}}　'''''Aongstroemiopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*3. '''[[裂齿藓属]]'''　'''''Dichodontium''''' Schimp.
===91. [[凤尾藓科]]　Fissidentaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[凤尾藓属]]'''　'''''Fissidens''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Octodiceras''''' Brid.
===92. [[曲尾藓科]]　Dicranaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[白锦藓属]]'''　'''''Leucoloma''''' Brid.
*2. '''[[苞领藓属]]'''　'''''Holomitrium''''' Brid.
*3. '''[[无齿藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudochorisodontium''''' (Broth.) C. Gao, Vitt, X. Fu & T. Cao
*4. '''[[锦叶藓属]]'''　'''''Dicranoloma''''' (Renauld) Renauld
*5. '''[[拟白发藓属]]'''　'''''Paraleucobryum''''' (Lindb. ex Limpr.) Loeske
*6. '''[[曲尾藓属]]'''　'''''Dicranum''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Cecalyphum''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[直毛藓属]]'''　'''''Orthodicranum''''' (Bruch & Schimp.) Loeske
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Dicranodon''''' Béhéré
*7. '''[[高苞藓属]]'''　'''''Braunfelsia''''' Paris
==30. 丛藓目　Pottiales==
===93. [[瓶藓科]]　Amphidiaceae M. Stech===
*1. '''[[瓶藓属]]'''　'''''Amphidium''''' Schimp.
===94. [[光藓科]]　Schistostegaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[光藓属]]'''　'''''Schistostega''''' D. Mohr
===95. [[树生藓科]]　Erpodiaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[苔叶藓属]]'''　'''''Aulacopilum''''' Wilson
*2. '''[[细鳞藓属]]'''　'''''Solmsiella''''' Müll. Hal.
*3. '''[[钟帽藓属]]'''　'''''Venturiella''''' Müll. Hal.
===96. [[刺藓科]]　Rhachitheciaceae H. Rob.===
*1. '''[[刺藓属]]'''　'''''Rhachithecium''''' Broth. ex Le Jol.
===97. [[小烛藓科]]　Bruchiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[小烛藓属]]'''　'''''Bruchia''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*2. '''[[小炬藓属]]''' {{Sm|(拟小烛藓属)}}　'''''Eobruchia''''' W. R. Buck
*3. '''[[并列藓属]]'''　'''''Pringleella''''' Cardot
*4. '''[[长蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Trematodon''''' Michx.
===98. [[牛毛藓科]]　Ditrichaceae Limpr.===
*1. '''[[高地藓属]]'''　'''''Astomiopsis''''' Müll. Hal.
*2. '''[[角齿藓属]]'''　'''''Ceratodon''''' Brid.
*3. '''[[闭蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Cleistocarpidium''''' Ochyra & Bedn.-Ochyra
*4. '''[[拟牛毛藓属]]'''　'''''Ditrichopsis''''' Broth.
*5. '''[[牛毛藓属]]'''　'''''Ditrichum''''' Timm ex Hampe
*6. '''[[裂蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Eccremidium''''' E. H. Wilson
*7. '''[[荷包藓属]]'''　'''''Garckea''''' Müll. Hal.
*8. '''[[丛毛藓属]]'''　'''''Pleuridium''''' Rabenh.
*9. '''[[曲喙藓属]]'''　'''''Rhamphidium''''' Mitt.
*10. '''[[毛齿藓属]]'''　'''''Trichodon''''' Schimp.
*11. '''[[立毛藓属]]'''　'''''Tristichium''''' Müll. Hal.
*12. '''[[威氏藓属]]'''　'''''Wilsoniella''''' Müll. Hal.
===99. [[粗石藓科]]　Rhabdoweisiaceae Limpr.===
*1. '''[[卷毛藓属]]'''　'''''Dicranoweisia''''' Lindb. ex Milde
*2. '''[[粗石藓属]]'''　'''''Rhabdoweisia''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*3. '''[[曲背藓属]]'''　'''''Oncophorus''''' Brid.
*4. '''[[石毛藓属]]'''　'''''Oreoweisia''''' (Bruch & Schimp.) De Not.
*5. '''[[凯氏藓属]]'''　'''''Kiaeria''''' I. Hagen
*6. '''[[狗牙藓属]]'''　'''''Cynodontium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纤细狗牙藓属]]'''　'''''Cnestrum''''' I. Hagen
*7. '''[[极地藓属]]'''　'''''Arctoa''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*8. '''[[高领藓属]]'''　'''''Glyphomitrium''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Aulacomitrium''''' Mitt.
*9. '''[[山毛藓属]]'''　'''''Oreas''''' Brid.
*10. '''[[合睫藓属]]'''　'''''Symblepharis''''' Mont.
===100. [[小曲尾藓科]]　Dicranellaceae M. Stech===
*1. '''[[小曲尾藓属]]'''　'''''Dicranella''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异毛藓属]]'''　'''''Anisothecium''''' Mitt.
*2. '''[[扭柄藓属]]'''　'''''Campylopodium''''' (Müll. Hal.) Besch.
*3. '''[[纤毛藓属]]'''　'''''Leptotrichella''''' (Müll. Hal.) Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小毛藓属]]'''　'''''Microdus''''' Schimp. ex Besch.
*4. '''[[小曲柄藓属]]'''　'''''Microcampylopus''''' (Müll. Hal.) M. Fleisch.
===101. [[丛藓科]]　Pottiaceae Hampe===
*1. '''[[舌叶藓属]]'''　'''''Scopelophila''''' (Mitt.) Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剑叶藓属]]'''　'''''Merceyopsis''''' Broth. & Dixon
*2. '''[[疣壶藓属]]'''　'''''Gymnostomiella''''' M. Fleisch.
*3. '''[[湿地藓属]]'''　'''''Hyophila''''' Brid.
*4. '''[[短壶藓属]]'''　'''''Splachnobryum''''' Müll. Hal.
*5. '''[[丛本藓属]]'''　'''''Anoectangium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*6. '''[[净口藓属]]'''　'''''Gymnostomum''''' Nees & Hornsch.
*7. '''[[立膜藓属]]'''　'''''Hymenostylium''''' Brid.
*8. '''[[托氏藓属]]'''　'''''Tuerckheimia''''' Broth.
*9. '''[[扭口藓属]]'''　'''''Barbula''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石灰藓属]]'''　'''''Hydrogonium''''' (Müll. Hal.) A. Jaeger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小扭口藓属]]'''　'''''Semibarbula''''' Herzog ex Hilp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扭毛藓属]]'''　'''''Streblotrichum''''' P. Beauv.
*10. '''[[艳枝藓属]]'''　'''''Eucladium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*11. '''[[毛口藓属]]'''　'''''Trichostomum''''' Bruch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酸土藓属]]'''　'''''Oxystegus''''' (Limpr.) Hilp.
*12. '''[[小石藓属]]'''　'''''Weissia''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[闭口藓属]]'''　'''''Astomum''''' Hampe
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[膜口藓属]]'''　'''''Hymenostomum''''' R. Br.
*13. '''[[夭命藓属]]'''　'''''Ephemerum''''' Hampe
*14. '''[[拟合睫藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudosymblepharis''''' Broth.
*15. '''[[侧出藓属]]'''　'''''Pleurochaete''''' Lindb.
*16. '''[[纽藓属]]'''　'''''Tortella''''' (Lindb.) Limpr.
*17. '''[[陈氏藓属]]'''　'''''Chenia''''' R. H. Zander
*18. '''[[圆口藓属]]'''　'''''Gyroweisia''''' Schimp.
*19. '''[[细齿藓属]]'''　'''''Hennediella''''' Paris
*20. '''[[花栉藓属]]''' {{Sm|(拟流苏藓属)}}　'''''Pseudocrossidium''''' R. S. Williams
*21. '''[[薄齿藓属]]'''　'''''Leptodontium''''' (Müll. Hal.) Hampe ex Lindb.
*22. '''[[芦荟藓属]]'''　'''''Aloina''''' Kindb.
*23. '''[[复边藓属]]'''　'''''Cinclidotus''''' P. Beauv.
*24. '''[[红叶藓属]]'''　'''''Bryoerythrophyllum''''' P. C. Chen
*25. '''[[对齿藓属]]'''　'''''Didymodon''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Geheebia''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锯齿藓属]]'''　'''''Prionidium''''' Hilp.
*26. '''[[矮藓属]]'''　'''''Acaulon''''' Müll. Hal.
*27. '''[[赤藓属]]'''　'''''Syntrichia''''' Brid.
*28. '''[[墙藓属]]'''　'''''Tortula''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[链齿藓属]]'''　'''''Desmatodon''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球藓属]]'''　'''''Phascum''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丛藓属]]'''　'''''Pottia''''' Ehrh. ex Fürnr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密疣球藓属]]'''　'''''Protobryum''''' J. Guerra & M. J. Cano
*29. '''[[流苏藓属]]'''　'''''Crossidium''''' Jur.
*30. '''[[盐土藓属]]'''　'''''Pterygoneurum''''' Jur.
*31. '''[[石芽藓属]]'''　'''''Stegonia''''' Venturi
*32. '''[[细丛藓属]]'''　'''''Microbryum''''' Schimp.
*33. '''[[美叶藓属]]'''　'''''Bellibarbula''''' P. C. Chen
*34. '''[[卵叶藓属]]'''　'''''Hilpertia''''' R. H. Zander
*35. '''[[大丛藓属]]''' {{Sm|(毛氏藓属)}}　'''''Molendoa''''' Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[侧立藓属]]'''　'''''Pleuroweisia''''' Limpr. ex Schlieph.
*36. '''[[卷边藓属]]'''　'''''Plaubelia''''' Brid.
*37. '''[[仰叶藓属]]''' {{Sm|(芮氏藓属)}}　'''''Reimersia''''' P. C. Chen
*38. '''[[密疣藓属]]'''　'''''Vinealobryum''''' R. H. Zander
*39. '''[[小墙藓属]]'''　'''''Weisiopsis''''' Broth.
==31. 壶藓目　Splachnales==
===102. [[寒藓科]]　Meesiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[拟寒藓属]]'''　'''''Amblyodon''''' P. Beauv.
*2. '''[[薄囊藓属]]'''　'''''Leptobryum''''' (Schimp.) Wilson
*3. '''[[寒藓属]]'''　'''''Meesia''''' Hedw.
*4. '''[[沼寒藓属]]'''　'''''Paludella''''' Ehrh. ex Brid.
===103. [[壶藓科]]　Splachnaceae Grev. & Arn.===
*1. '''[[壶藓属]]'''　'''''Splachnum''''' Hedw.
*2. '''[[小壶藓属]]'''　'''''Tayloria''''' Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Dissodon''''' Grev. & Arn.
*3. '''[[并齿藓属]]'''　'''''Tetraplodon''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*4. '''[[隐壶藓属]]'''　'''''Voitia''''' Hornsch.
==32. 珠藓目　Bartramiales==
===104. [[珠藓科]]　Bartramiaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[刺毛藓属]]'''　'''''Anacolia''''' Schimp.
*2. '''[[珠藓属]]'''　'''''Bartramia''''' Hedw.
*3. '''[[热泽藓属]]'''　'''''Breutelia''''' (Bruch & Schimp.) Schimp.
*4. '''[[长柄藓属]]''' {{Sm|(佛氏藓属)}}　'''''Fleischerobryum''''' Loeske
*5. '''[[泽藓属]]'''　'''''Philonotis''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垂蒴泽藓属]]'''　'''''Bartramidula''''' Bruch & Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Glyphocarpa''''' R. Br.
*6. '''[[平珠藓属]]'''　'''''Plagiopus''''' Brid.
==33. 虎尾藓目　Hedwigiales==
===105. [[虎尾藓科]]　Hedwigiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[赤枝藓属]]'''　'''''Braunia''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*2. '''[[虎尾藓属]]'''　'''''Hedwigia''''' P. Beauv.
*3. '''[[棕尾藓属]]'''　'''''Hedwigidium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
==34. 真藓目　Bryales==
===106. [[提灯藓科]]　Mniaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[小叶藓属]]'''　'''''Epipterygium''''' Lindb.
*2. '''[[缺齿藓属]]'''　'''''Mielichhoferia''''' Nees & Hornsch.
*3. '''[[丝瓜藓属]]'''　'''''Pohlia''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[广口藓属]]'''　'''''Mniobryum''''' Limpr.
*4. '''[[拟丝瓜藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudopohlia''''' R. S. Williams
*5. '''[[合齿藓属]]'''　'''''Synthetodontium''''' Cardot
*6. '''[[北灯藓属]]'''　'''''Cinclidium''''' Sw.
*7. '''[[曲灯藓属]]'''　'''''Cyrtomnium''''' Holmen
*8. '''[[提灯藓属]]'''　'''''Mnium''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬叶提灯藓属]]'''　'''''Stellariomnium''''' M. C. Bowers
*9. '''[[立灯藓属]]'''　'''''Orthomnion''''' Wilson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柔叶立灯藓属]]'''　'''''Orthomniopsis''''' Broth.
*10. '''[[匐灯藓属]]'''　'''''Plagiomnium''''' T. J. Kop.
*11. '''[[拟真藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudobryum''''' (Kindb.) T. J. Kop.
*12. '''[[毛灯藓属]]'''　'''''Rhizomnium''''' (Mitt. ex Broth.) T. J. Kop.
*13. '''[[疣灯藓属]]'''　'''''Trachycystis''''' Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞭枝疣灯藓属]]'''　'''''Flagellomnium''''' Laz.
*14. '''[[纤齿藓属]]'''　'''''Haplodontium''''' Hampe
===107. [[真藓科]]　Bryaceae Schw&auml;gr.===
*1. '''[[银藓属]]'''　'''''Anomobryum''''' Schimp.
*2. '''[[短月藓属]]'''　'''''Brachymenium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*3. '''[[真藓属]]'''　'''''Bryum''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Argyrobryum''''' (Müll. Hal.) Kindb.
*4. '''[[平蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Plagiobryum''''' Lindb.
*5. '''[[大叶藓属]]'''　'''''Rhodobryum''''' (Schimp.) Limpr.
==35. 木灵藓目　Orthotrichales==
===108. [[木灵藓科]]　Orthotrichaceae Arn.===
*1. '''[[小蓑藓属]]''' {{Sm|(裸帽藓属)}}　'''''Groutiella''''' Steere
*2. '''[[疣毛藓属]]'''　'''''Leratia''''' Broth. & Paris
*3. '''[[显孔藓属]]'''　'''''Lewinskya''''' F. Lara, Garilleti & Goffinet
*4. '''[[直叶藓属]]'''　'''''Macrocoma''''' (Hornsch. ex Müll. Hal.) Grout
*5. '''[[蓑藓属]]'''　'''''Macromitrium''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝叶蓑藓属]]'''　'''''Dasymitrium''''' Lindb.
*6. '''[[木灵藓属]]'''　'''''Orthotrichum''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝叶木灵藓属]]'''　'''''Nyholmiella''''' Holmen & E. Warncke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疣孢木灵藓属]]'''　'''''Orthomitrium''''' Lewinsky & Crosby
*7. '''[[火藓属]]'''　'''''Schlotheimia''''' Brid.
*8. '''[[卷叶藓属]]'''　'''''Ulota''''' D. Mohr
*9. '''[[变齿藓属]]'''　'''''Zygodon''''' Hook. & Taylor
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝叶变齿藓属]]'''　'''''Bryomaltaea''''' Goffinet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Codonoblepharon''''' Schw&auml;gr.
==36. 直齿藓目　Orthodontiales==
===109. [[直齿藓科]]　Orthodontiaceae Goffinet===
*1. '''[[拟直齿藓属]]'''　'''''Orthodontopsis''''' Ignatov & B. C. Tan
==37. 桧藓目　Rhizogoniales==
===110. [[桧藓科]]　Rhizogoniaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[桧藓属]]'''　'''''Pyrrhobryum''''' Mitt.
==38. 皱蒴藓目　Aulacomniales==
===111. [[皱蒴藓科]]　Aulacomniaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[皱蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Aulacomnium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Orthopyxis''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Arrhenopterum''''' Hedw.
==39. 树灰藓目　Hypnodendrales==
===112. [[树灰藓科]]　Hypnodendraceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[树形藓属]]'''　'''''Dendro-hypnum''''' Hampe
*2. '''[[木毛藓属]]'''　'''''Spiridens''''' Nees
*3. '''[[树灰藓属]]'''　'''''Hypnodendron''''' (Müll. Hal.) Lindb. ex Mitt.
===113. [[卷柏藓科]]　Racopilaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[卷柏藓属]]'''　'''''Racopilum''''' P. Beauv.
==40. 棱蒴藓目　Ptychomniales==
===114. [[棱蒴藓科]]　Ptychomniaceae M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[汉氏藓属]]'''　'''''Hampeella''''' Müll. Hal.
*2. '''[[绳藓属]]'''　'''''Garovaglia''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Endotrichella''''' Müll. Hal.
*3. '''[[直棱藓属]]'''　'''''Glyphothecium''''' Hampe
==41. 孔雀藓目　Hypopterygiales==
===115. [[孔雀藓科]]　Hypopterygiaceae Mitt.===
*1. '''[[雉尾藓属]]'''　'''''Cyathophorum''''' P. Beauv.
*2. '''[[孔雀藓属]]'''　'''''Hypopterygium''''' Brid.
*3. '''[[树雉尾藓属]]'''　'''''Dendrocyathophorum''''' Dixon
*4. '''[[雀尾藓属]]'''　'''''Lopidium''''' Hook. f. & Wilson
==42. 油藓目　Hookeriales==
===116. [[小黄藓科]]　Daltoniaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[毛柄藓属]]'''　'''''Calyptrochaeta''''' Desv.
*2. '''[[小黄藓属]]'''　'''''Daltonia''''' Hook. & Taylor
*3. '''[[黄藓属]]'''　'''''Distichophyllum''''' Dozy & Molk.
===117. [[油藓科]]　Hookeriaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[油藓属]]'''　'''''Hookeria''''' Sm.
===118. [[白藓科]]　Leucomiaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[白藓属]]'''　'''''Leucomium''''' Mitt.
===119. [[茸帽藓科]]　Pilotrichaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[假黄藓属]]'''　'''''Actinodontium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*2. '''[[圆网藓属]]'''　'''''Cyclodictyon''''' Mitt.
*3. '''[[强肋藓属]]'''　'''''Callicostella''''' (Müll. Hal.) Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Schizomitrium''''' Schimp.
*4. '''[[拟油藓属]]'''　'''''Hookeriopsis''''' (Besch.) A. Jaeger
==43. 灰藓目　Hypnales==
===120. [[硬叶藓科]]　Stereophyllaceae W. R. Buck & Ireland===
*1. '''[[拟绢藓属]]'''　'''''Entodontopsis''''' Broth.
===121. [[碎米藓科]]　Fabroniaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[碎米藓属]]'''　'''''Fabronia''''' Raddi
*2. '''[[白翼藓属]]'''　'''''Levierella''''' Müll. Hal.
===122. [[棉藓科]]　Plagiotheciaceae M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[长灰藓属]]'''　'''''Herzogiella''''' Broth.
*2. '''[[拟同叶藓属]]'''　'''''Isopterygiopsis''''' Z. Iwats.
*3. '''[[小鼠尾藓属]]'''　'''''Myurella''''' Schimp.
*4. '''[[灰石藓属]]'''　'''''Orthothecium''''' Schimp.
*5. '''[[棉藓属]]'''　'''''Plagiothecium''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶棉藓属]]'''　'''''Ortholimnobium''''' Dixon
*6. '''[[细柳藓属]]'''　'''''Platydictya''''' Berk.
*7. '''[[牛尾藓属]]'''　'''''Struckia''''' Müll. Hal.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长尖牛尾藓属]]'''　'''''Cephalocladium''''' Laz.
===123. [[粗柄藓科]]　Trachylomataceae W. R. Buck & Vitt===
*1. '''[[粗柄藓属]]'''　'''''Trachyloma''''' Brid.
===124. [[蝎尾藓科]]　Scorpidiaceae Ignatov & Ignatova===
*1. '''[[三洋藓属]]'''　'''''Sanionia''''' Loeske
*2. '''[[水灰藓属]]'''　'''''Hygrohypnum''''' Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Limnobiopsis''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*3. '''[[钩茎藓属]]'''　'''''Hamatocaulis''''' Heden&auml;s
*4. '''[[蝎尾藓属]]'''　'''''Scorpidium''''' (Schimp.) Limpr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扭叶蝎尾藓属]]'''　'''''Limprichtia''''' Loeske
===125. [[湿原藓科]]　Calliergonaceae Vanderp., Heden&auml;s, C. J. Cox & A. J. Shaw===
*1. '''[[湿原藓属]]'''　'''''Calliergon''''' (Sull.) Kindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔓枝湿原藓属]]'''　'''''Sarmentypnum''''' Tuom. & T. J. Kop.
*2. '''[[范氏藓属]]'''　'''''Warnstorfia''''' Loeske
===126. [[蕨藓科]]　Pterobryaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[耳平藓属]]'''　'''''Calyptothecium''''' Mitt.
*2. '''[[兜叶藓属]]'''　'''''Horikawaea''''' Nog.
*3. '''[[细树藓属]]'''　'''''Micralsopsis''''' W. R. Buck
*4. '''[[山地藓属]]'''　'''''Osterwaldiella''''' M. Fleisch.
*5. '''[[长蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Penzigiella''''' M. Fleisch.
*6. '''[[小蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Pireella''''' Cardot
*7. '''[[蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Pterobryon''''' Hornsch.
*8. '''[[拟蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Pterobryopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*9. '''[[瓢叶藓属]]'''　'''''Symphysodontella''''' M. Fleisch.
===127. [[腋苞藓科]]　Pterigynandraceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[腋苞藓属]]'''　'''''Pterigynandrum''''' Hedw.
===128. [[隐蒴藓科]]　Cryphaeaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[隐蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Cryphaea''''' F. Weber
*2. '''[[线齿藓属]]'''　'''''Cyptodontopsis''''' Dixon
*3. '''[[毛枝藓属]]'''　'''''Pilotrichopsis''''' Besch.
*4. '''[[顶隐蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Schoenobryum''''' Dozy & Molk.
*5. '''[[球蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Sphaerotheciella''''' M. Fleisch.
===129. [[拟薄罗藓科]]　Pseudoleskeaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[多毛藓属]]'''　'''''Lescuraea''''' Schimp.
*2. '''[[拟褶叶藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudopleuropus''''' Takaki
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喜马拉雅拟褶叶藓属]]'''　'''''Miehea''''' Ochyra
===130. [[刺果藓科]]　Symphyodontaceae M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[灰果藓属]]'''　'''''Chaetomitriopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*2. '''[[刺柄藓属]]'''　'''''Chaetomitrium''''' Dozy & Molk.
*3. '''[[刺果藓属]]'''　'''''Symphyodon''''' Mont.
*4. '''[[刺蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Trachythecium''''' M. Fleisch.
===131. [[蔓藓科]]　Meteoriaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[毛扭藓属]]'''　'''''Aerobryidium''''' M. Fleisch. ex Broth.
*2. '''[[灰气藓属]]'''　'''''Aerobryopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*3. '''[[悬藓属]]'''　'''''Barbella''''' M. Fleisch. ex Broth.
*4. '''[[拟悬藓属]]'''　'''''Barbellopsis''''' Broth.
*5. '''[[垂藓属]]'''　'''''Chrysocladium''''' M. Fleisch.
*6. '''[[隐松萝藓属]]'''　'''''Cryptopapillaria''''' M. Menzel
*7. '''[[异节藓属]]'''　'''''Diaphanodon''''' Renauld & Cardot
*8. '''[[绿锯藓属]]'''　'''''Duthiella''''' Müll. Hal. ex Broth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美绿锯藓属]]'''　'''''Matsumuraea''''' S. Okamura
*9. '''[[丝带藓属]]'''　'''''Floribundaria''''' M. Fleisch.
*10. '''[[粗蔓藓属]]'''　'''''Meteoriopsis''''' M. Fleisch. ex Broth.
*11. '''[[蔓藓属]]'''　'''''Meteorium''''' (Brid.) Dozy & Molk.
*12. '''[[新丝藓属]]'''　'''''Neodicladiella''''' (Nog.) W. R. Buck
*13. '''[[耳蔓藓属]]'''　'''''Neonoguchia''''' S. H. Lin
*14. '''[[松萝藓属]]'''　'''''Papillaria''''' (Müll. Hal.) Lorentz
*15. '''[[假悬藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudobarbella''''' Nog.
*16. '''[[拟木毛藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudospiridentopsis''''' (Broth.) M. Fleisch.
*17. '''[[多疣藓属]]'''　'''''Sinskea''''' W. R. Buck
*18. '''[[反叶藓属]]'''　'''''Toloxis''''' W. R. Buck
*19. '''[[细带藓属]]'''　'''''Trachycladiella''''' (M. Fleisch.) M. Menzel
*20. '''[[拟扭叶藓属]]'''　'''''Trachypodopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*21. '''[[扭叶藓属]]'''　'''''Trachypus''''' Reinw. & Hornsch.
===132. [[瓦叶藓科]]　Miyabeaceae Enroth, S. Olsson, Buchb., Heden&auml;s, Huttunen & D. Quandt===
*1. '''[[拟扁枝藓属]]'''　'''''Homaliadelphus''''' Dixon & P. de la Varde
*2. '''[[瓦叶藓属]]'''　'''''Miyabea''''' Broth.
===133. [[柔齿藓科]]　Habrodontaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[柔齿藓属]]'''　'''''Habrodon''''' Schimp.
===134. [[水藓科]]　Fontinalaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[弯刀藓属]]'''　'''''Dichelyma''''' Myrin
*2. '''[[水藓属]]'''　'''''Fontinalis''''' Hedw.
===135. [[金毛藓科]]　Myuriaceae Broth. ex M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[拟金毛藓属]]'''　'''''Eumyurium''''' Nog.
*2. '''[[红毛藓属]]'''　'''''Oedicladium''''' Mitt.
*3. '''[[栅孔藓属]]'''　'''''Palisadula''''' Toyama
===136. [[塔藓科]]　Hylocomiaceae M. Fleisch.===
*1. '''[[梳藓属]]'''　'''''Ctenidium''''' (Schimp.) Mitt.
*2. '''[[星塔藓属]]'''　'''''Hylocomiastrum''''' M. Fleisch. ex Broth.
*3. '''[[塔藓属]]'''　'''''Hylocomium''''' Schimp.
*4. '''[[薄壁藓属]]'''　'''''Leptocladiella''''' M. Fleisch.
*5. '''[[薄膜藓属]]'''　'''''Leptohymenium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
*6. '''[[假蔓藓属]]'''　'''''Loeskeobryum''''' M. Fleisch. ex Broth.
*7. '''[[南木藓属]]'''　'''''Macrothamnium''''' M. Fleisch.
*8. '''[[小蔓藓属]]'''　'''''Meteoriella''''' S. Okamura
*9. '''[[新船叶藓属]]'''　'''''Neodolichomitra''''' Nog.
*10. '''[[赤茎藓属]]'''　'''''Pleurozium''''' (Sull.) Mitt.
*11. '''[[拟垂枝藓属]]'''　'''''Rhytidiadelphus''''' (Limpr.) Warnst.
===137. [[青藓科]]　Brachytheciaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[气藓属]]'''　'''''Aerobryum''''' Dozy & Molk.
*2. '''[[青藓属]]'''　'''''Brachythecium''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钩叶青藓属]]'''　'''''Cratoneurella''''' H. Rob.
*3. '''[[燕尾藓属]]'''　'''''Bryhnia''''' Kaurin
*4. '''[[斜蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Camptothecium''''' Schimp.
*5. '''[[毛尖藓属]]'''　'''''Cirriphyllum''''' Grout
*6. '''[[美喙藓属]]'''　'''''Eurhynchium''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖叶美喙藓属]]'''　'''''Eurhynchiadelphus''''' Ignatov, Huttunen & T. J. Kop.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Oxyrrhynchium''''' (Schimp.) Warnst.
*7. '''[[旋齿藓属]]'''　'''''Helicodontium''''' (Mitt.) A. Jaeger
*8. '''[[拟同蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Homalotheciella''''' (Cardot) Broth.
*9. '''[[同蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Homalothecium''''' Schimp.
*10. '''[[拟无毛藓属]]'''　'''''Juratzkaeella''''' W. R. Buck
*11. '''[[异叶藓属]]'''　'''''Kindbergia''''' Ochyra
*12. '''[[鼠尾藓属]]'''　'''''Myuroclada''''' Besch.
*13. '''[[褶藓属]]'''　'''''Okamuraea''''' Broth.
*14. '''[[褶叶藓属]]'''　'''''Palamocladium''''' Müll. Hal.
*15. '''[[平灰藓属]]'''　'''''Platyhypnidium''''' M. Fleisch.
*16. '''[[细喙藓属]]'''　'''''Rhynchostegiella''''' (Schimp.) Limpr.
*17. '''[[长喙藓属]]'''　'''''Rhynchostegium''''' Schimp.
*18. '''[[拟青藓属]]'''　'''''Sciuro-hypnum''''' Hampe
*19. '''[[疣柄藓属]]'''　'''''Scleropodium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Pseudoscleropodium''''' (Limpr.) M. Fleisch.
===138. [[逆毛藓科]]　Antitrichiaceae Ignatov & Ignatova===
*1. '''[[逆毛藓属]]'''　'''''Antitrichia''''' Brid.
===139. [[牛舌藓科]]　Anomodontaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[牛舌藓属]]'''　'''''Anomodon''''' Hook. & Taylor
*2. '''[[多枝藓属]]'''　'''''Haplohymenium''''' Dozy & Molk.
*3. '''[[羊角藓属]]'''　'''''Herpetineuron''''' (Müll. Hal.) Cardot
*4. '''[[拟附干藓属]]'''　'''''Schwetschkeopsis''''' Broth.
===140. [[鳞叶藓科]]　Taxiphyllaceae Ignatov===
*1. '''[[扁锦藓属]]'''　'''''Glossadelphus''''' M. Fleisch.
*2. '''[[拟灰藓属]]'''　'''''Hondaella''''' Dixon & Sakurai
*3. '''[[叉羽藓属]]'''　'''''Leptopterigynandrum''''' Müll. Hal.
*4. '''[[鳞叶藓属]]'''　'''''Taxiphyllum''''' M. Fleisch.
===141. [[灰藓科]]　Hypnaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[扁灰藓属]]'''　'''''Breidleria''''' Loeske
*2. '''[[圆尖藓属]]'''　'''''Bryocrumia''''' L. E. Anderson
*3. '''[[拟腐木藓属]]'''　'''''Callicladium''''' H. A. Crum
*4. '''[[偏叶藓属]]'''　'''''Campylophyllum''''' (Schimp.) M. Fleisch.
*5. '''[[短菱藓属]]'''　'''''Ectropotheciella''''' M. Fleisch.
*6. '''[[偏蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Ectropothecium''''' Mitt.
*7. '''[[曲枝藓属]]'''　'''''Foreauella''''' Dixon & P. de la Varde
*8. '''[[粗枝藓属]]'''　'''''Gollania''''' Broth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菲律宾粗枝藓属]]'''　'''''Elmeriobryum''''' Broth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中华粗枝藓属]]'''　'''''Isotheciopsis''''' Broth.
*9. '''[[水梳藓属]]'''　'''''Hyocomium''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*10. '''[[灰藓属]]'''　'''''Hypnum''''' Hedw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[湿地灰藓属]]'''　'''''Calohypnum''''' Sakurai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Drepanium''''' (Schimp.) C. E. O. Jensen
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美灰藓属]]'''　'''''Eurohypnum''''' Ando
*11. '''[[平齿藓属]]'''　'''''Leiodontium''''' Broth.
*12. '''[[小梳藓属]]'''　'''''Microctenidium''''' M. Fleisch.
*13. '''[[叶齿藓属]]'''　'''''Phyllodon''''' Bruch & Schimp.
*14. '''[[拟平锦藓属]]'''　'''''Platygyriella''''' Cardot
*15. '''[[齿灰藓属]]'''　'''''Podperaea''''' Z. Iwats. & Glime
*16. '''[[假丛灰藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudostereodon''''' (Broth.) M. Fleisch.
*17. '''[[拟鳞叶藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudotaxiphyllum''''' Z. Iwats.
*18. '''[[毛梳藓属]]'''　'''''Ptilium''''' De Not.
*19. '''[[拟硬叶藓属]]'''　'''''Stereodontopsis''''' R. S. Williams
*20. '''[[毛青藓属]]'''　'''''Tomentypnum''''' Loeske
*21. '''[[明叶藓属]]'''　'''''Vesicularia''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
===142. [[万年藓科]]　Climaciaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[万年藓属]]'''　'''''Climacium''''' F. Weber & D. Mohr
*2. '''[[树藓属]]'''　'''''Pleuroziopsis''''' Kindb. ex E. Britton
===143. [[毛锦藓科]]　Pylaisiadelphaceae Goffinet & W. R. Buck===
*1. '''[[叉肋藓属]]'''　'''''Trachyphyllum''''' A. Gepp
*2. '''[[粗疣藓属]]'''　'''''Fauriella''''' Besch.
*3. '''[[同叶藓属]]'''　'''''Isopterygium''''' Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Taxicaulis''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
*4. '''[[平锦藓属]]'''　'''''Platygyrium''''' Schimp.
*5. '''[[拟小锦藓属]]'''　'''''Hageniella''''' Broth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凹叶拟小锦藓属]]'''　'''''Schofieldiella''''' W. R. Buck
*6. '''[[疣胞藓属]]'''　'''''Clastobryum''''' Dozy & Molk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Tristichella''''' Dixon
*7. '''[[竹藓属]]'''　'''''Aptychella''''' (Broth.) Herzog
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟疣胞藓属]]'''　'''''Clastobryopsis''''' M. Fleisch.
*8. '''[[麻锦藓属]]'''　'''''Taxithelium''''' Spruce ex Mitt.
*9. '''[[厚角藓属]]'''　'''''Gammiella''''' Broth.
*10. '''[[小锦藓属]]'''　'''''Brotherella''''' Loeske ex M. Fleisch.
*11. '''[[毛锦藓属]]'''　'''''Pylaisiadelpha''''' Cardot
*12. '''[[金枝藓属]]'''　'''''Trismegistia''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
===144. [[锦藓科]]　Sematophyllaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[腐木藓属]]'''　'''''Heterophyllium''''' (Schimp.) Kindb.
*2. '''[[单疣藓属]]'''　'''''Acanthorrhynchium''''' M. Fleisch.
*3. '''[[刺枝藓属]]'''　'''''Wijkia''''' H. A. Crum
*4. '''[[鞭枝藓属]]'''　'''''Isocladiella''''' Dixon
*5. '''[[拟金枝藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudotrismegistia''''' H. Akiyama & H. Tsubota
*6. '''[[顶胞藓属]]'''　'''''Acroporium''''' Mitt.
*7. '''[[细锯齿藓属]]'''　'''''Radulina''''' W. R. Buck & B. C. Tan
*8. '''[[狗尾藓属]]'''　'''''Rhaphidostichum''''' M. Fleisch.
*9. '''[[拟刺疣藓属]]'''　'''''Papillidiopsis''''' (Broth.) W. R. Buck & B. C. Tan
*10. '''[[刺疣藓属]]'''　'''''Trichosteleum''''' Mitt.
*11. '''[[裂帽藓属]]'''　'''''Warburgiella''''' Müll. Hal. ex Broth.
*12. '''[[花锦藓属]]'''　'''''Chionostomum''''' Müll. Hal.
*13. '''[[锦藓属]]'''　'''''Sematophyllum''''' Mitt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Aptychus''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
===145. [[船叶藓科]]　Lembophyllaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[异枝藓属]]'''　'''''Heterocladium''''' Schimp.
*2. '''[[船叶藓属]]'''　'''''Dolichomitra''''' Broth.
*3. '''[[拟船叶藓属]]'''　'''''Dolichomitriopsis''''' S. Okamura
*4. '''[[猫尾藓属]]'''　'''''Isothecium''''' Brid.
*5. '''[[新悬藓属]]'''　'''''Neobarbella''''' Nog.
*6. '''[[岸边藓属]]'''　'''''Mawenzhangia''''' Enroth, Shevock & Ignatov
===146. [[直列藓科]]　Orthostichellaceae Enroth, Huttunen, Tangney, M. Stech & D. Quandt===
*1. '''[[狄氏藓属]]'''　'''''Dixonia''''' Horik. & Ando
===147. [[平藓科]]　Neckeraceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[平藓属]]'''　'''''Neckera''''' Hedw.
*2. '''[[突蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Exsertotheca''''' S. Olsson, Enroth & D. Quandt
*3. '''[[残齿藓属]]'''　'''''Forsstroemia''''' Lindb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇蕨藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudopterobryum''''' Broth.
*4. '''[[艾氏藓属]]'''　'''''Alleniella''''' S. Olsson, Enroth & D. Quandt
*5. '''[[扁枝藓属]]'''　'''''Homalia''''' Brid.
*6. '''[[木藓属]]'''　'''''Thamnobryum''''' Nieuwl.
*7. '''[[树枝藓属]]'''　'''''Porotrichodendron''''' M. Fleisch.
*8. '''[[弯枝藓属]]'''　'''''Curvicladium''''' Enroth
*9. '''[[亮蒴藓属]]'''　'''''Shevockia''''' Enroth & M. C. Ji
*10. '''[[卷枝藓属]]'''　'''''Noguchiodendron''''' Ninh & Pócs
*11. '''[[台湾藓属]]'''　'''''Taiwanobryum''''' Nog.
*12. '''[[羽枝藓属]]'''　'''''Pinnatella''''' M. Fleisch.
*13. '''[[树平藓属]]'''　'''''Homaliodendron''''' M. Fleisch.
*14. '''[[鹏程藓属]]'''　'''''Pengchengwua''''' S. Olsson, Enroth, Huttunen & D. Quandt
*15. '''[[拟厚边藓属]]''' {{Sm|(黄边藓属)}}　'''''Handeliobryum''''' Broth.
*16. '''[[湿隐藓属]]'''　'''''Hydrocryphaea''''' Dixon
*17. '''[[嵌边藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudoparaphysanthus''''' (Broth.) S. Olsson, Enroth, Huttunen & D. Quandt
*18. '''[[截叶藓属]]'''　'''''Neckeromnion''''' S. Olsson, Enroth, Huttunen & D. Quandt
*19. '''[[小树平藓属]]'''　'''''Circulifolium''''' S. Olsson, Enroth & D. Quandt
*20. '''[[尾枝藓属]]'''　'''''Caduciella''''' Enroth
*21. '''[[波叶藓属]]'''　'''''Himantocladium''''' (Mitt.) M. Fleisch.
*22. '''[[拟平藓属]]'''　'''''Neckeropsis''''' Reichardt
===148. [[柳叶藓科]]　Amblystegiaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[拟细湿藓属]]'''　'''''Campyliadelphus''''' (Kindb.) R. S. Chopra
*2. '''[[牛角藓属]]'''　'''''Cratoneuron''''' (Sull.) Spruce
*3. '''[[反齿藓属]]'''　'''''Anacamptodon''''' Brid.
*4. '''[[细湿藓属]]'''　'''''Campylium''''' (Sull.) Mitt.
*5. '''[[柳叶藓属]]'''　'''''Amblystegium''''' Schimp.
*6. '''[[沼地藓属]]'''　'''''Palustriella''''' Ochyra
*7. '''[[镰刀藓属]]'''　'''''Drepanocladus''''' (Müll. Hal.) G. Roth
*8. '''[[拟湿原藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudocalliergon''''' (Limpr.) Loeske
*9. '''[[湿柳藓属]]'''　'''''Hygroamblystegium''''' Loeske
*10. '''[[薄网藓属]]'''　'''''Leptodictyum''''' (Schimp.) Warnst.
*11. '''[[曲茎藓属]]'''　'''''Callialaria''''' Ochyra
*12. '''[[类牛角藓属]]'''　'''''Sasaokaea''''' Broth.
*13. '''[[厚边藓属]]'''　'''''Sciaromiopsis''''' Broth.
*14. '''[[华原藓属]]'''　'''''Sinocalliergon''''' Sakurai
*15. '''[[列胞藓属]]'''　'''''Conardia''''' H. Rob.
===149. [[绢藓科]]　Entodontaceae Kindb.===
*1. '''[[绢藓属]]'''　'''''Entodon''''' Müll. Hal.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细绢藓属]]'''　'''''Synodontella''''' Dixon & Thér.
*2. '''[[赤齿藓属]]'''　'''''Erythrodontium''''' Hampe
*3. '''[[斜齿藓属]]'''　'''''Mesonodon''''' Hampe
*4. '''[[螺叶藓属]]'''　'''''Sakuraia''''' Broth.
===150. [[异齿藓科]]　Regmatodontaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[异齿藓属]]'''　'''''Regmatodon''''' Brid.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多蒴异齿藓属]]'''　'''''Anhymenium''''' Griff.
*2. '''[[云南藓属]]'''　'''''Yunnanobryon''''' Shevock, Ochyra, S. He & D. G. Long
===151. [[假细罗藓科]]　Pseudoleskeellaceae Ignatov & Ignatova===
*1. '''[[假细罗藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudoleskeella''''' Kindb.
===152. [[垂枝藓科]]　Rhytidiaceae Broth.===
*1. '''[[垂枝藓属]]'''　'''''Rhytidium''''' (Sull.) Kindb.
===153. [[薄罗藓科]]　Leskeaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[麻羽藓属]]'''　'''''Claopodium''''' (Lesq. & James) Renauld & Cardot
*2. '''[[薄羽藓属]]'''　'''''Leptocladium''''' Broth.
*3. '''[[薄罗藓属]]'''　'''''Leskea''''' Hedw.
*4. '''[[细罗藓属]]'''　'''''Leskeella''''' (Limpr.) Loeske
*5. '''[[细枝藓属]]'''　'''''Lindbergia''''' Kindb.
*6. '''[[拟柳叶藓属]]'''　'''''Orthoamblystegium''''' Dixon & Sakurai
*7. '''[[拟草藓属]]'''　'''''Pseudoleskeopsis''''' Broth.
*8. '''[[小绢藓属]]'''　'''''Rozea''''' Besch.
*9. '''[[附干藓属]]'''　'''''Schwetschkea''''' Müll. Hal.
===154. [[金灰藓科]]　Pylaisiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[大湿原藓属]]'''　'''''Calliergonella''''' Loeske
*2. '''[[毛灰藓属]]'''　'''''Homomallium''''' (Schimp.) Loeske
*3. '''[[金灰藓属]]'''　'''''Pylaisia''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝灰藓属]]'''　'''''Giraldiella''''' Müll. Hal.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟金灰藓属]]'''　'''''Pylaisiopsis''''' (Broth.) Broth.
===155. [[羽藓科]]　Thuidiaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[小柔齿藓属]]'''　'''''Iwatsukiella''''' W. R. Buck & H. A. Crum
*2. '''[[锦丝藓属]]'''　'''''Actinothuidium''''' Broth.
*3. '''[[沼羽藓属]]'''　'''''Helodium''''' Warnst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Elodium''''' (Sull.) Austin
*4. '''[[硬羽藓属]]'''　'''''Rauiella''''' Reimers
*5. '''[[山羽藓属]]''' {{Sm|(杉羽藓属)}}　'''''Abietinella''''' Müll. Hal.
*6. '''[[毛羽藓属]]'''　'''''Bryonoguchia''''' Z. Iwats. & Inoue
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Bryochenea''''' C. Gao & K. C. Chang
*7. '''[[小羽藓属]]'''　'''''Haplocladium''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
*8. '''[[鹤嘴藓属]]'''　'''''Pelekium''''' Mitt.
*9. '''[[羽藓属]]'''　'''''Thuidium''''' Schimp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Tamariscella''''' (Müll. Hal.) Müll. Hal.
*10. '''[[虫毛藓属]]'''　'''''Boulaya''''' Cardot
*11. '''[[细羽藓属]]'''　'''''Cyrto-hypnum''''' (Hampe) Hampe & Lorentz
*12. '''[[拟塔藓属]]'''　'''''Hylocomiopsis''''' Cardot
*13. '''[[南羽藓属]]'''　'''''Indothuidium''''' Touw
===156. [[白齿藓科]]　Leucodontaceae Schimp.===
*1. '''[[单齿藓属]]'''　'''''Dozya''''' Sande Lac.
*2. '''[[白齿藓属]]'''　'''''Leucodon''''' Schw&auml;gr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Astrodontium''''' Schw&auml;gr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垂悬白齿藓属]]'''　'''''Leucodontella''''' Nog.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Macrosporiella''''' Dixon & Thér.
*3. '''[[拟白齿藓属]]'''　'''''Pterogoniadelphus''''' M. Fleisch.
*4. '''[[疣齿藓属]]'''　'''''Scabridens''''' E. B. Bartram
==44. 角苔目　Anthocerotales==
===157. [[角苔科]]　Anthocerotaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[褐角苔属]]'''　'''''Folioceros''''' D. C. Bhardwaj
*2. '''[[角苔属]]'''　'''''Anthoceros''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Aspiromitus''''' Steph.
==45. 短角苔目　Notothyladales==
===158. [[短角苔科]]　Notothyladaceae Müll. Frib. ex Prosk.===
*1. '''[[黄角苔属]]'''　'''''Phaeoceros''''' Prosk.
*2. '''[[短角苔属]]'''　'''''Notothylas''''' Sull.
*3. '''[[服角苔属]]''' {{Sm|(服部角苔属)}}　'''''Hattorioceros''''' (J. Haseg.) J. Haseg.
*4. '''[[中角苔属]]'''　'''''Mesoceros''''' Piippo
==46. 肿角苔目　Phymatocerotales==
===159. [[肿角苔科]]　Phymatocerotaceae R. J. Duff, J. C. Villarreal, Cargill & Renzaglia===
*1. '''[[肿角苔属]]'''　'''''Phymatoceros''''' Stotler, W. T. Doyle & Crand.-Stotl.
==47. 树角苔目　Dendrocerotales==
===160. [[树角苔科]]　Dendrocerotaceae J. Haseg.===
*1. '''[[树角苔属]]'''　'''''Dendroceros''''' Nees
*2. '''[[大角苔属]]'''　'''''Megaceros''''' Campb.
==48. 石松目　Lycopodiales==
===161. [[石松科]]　Lycopodiaceae P. Beauv. ex Mirb.===
*1. '''[[马尾杉属]]'''　'''''Phlegmariurus''''' (Herter) Holub
*2. '''[[石杉属]]'''　'''''Huperzia''''' Bernh.
*3. '''[[小石松属]]'''　'''''Lycopodiella''''' Holub
*4. '''[[拟小石松属]]'''　'''''Pseudolycopodiella''''' Holub
*5. '''[[垂穗石松属]]''' {{Sm|(灯笼草属)}}　'''''Palhinhaea''''' Franco & Vasc. ex Vasc. & Franco
*6. '''[[扁枝石松属]]'''　'''''Diphasiastrum''''' Holub
*7. '''[[单穗石松属]]'''　'''''Spinulum''''' A. Haines
*8. '''[[石松属]]'''　'''''Lycopodium''''' L.
*9. '''[[玉柏属]]''' {{Sm|(笔直石松属)}}　'''''Dendrolycopodium''''' A. Haines
*10. '''[[藤石松属]]'''　'''''Lycopodiastrum''''' Holub ex R. D. Dixit
==49. 水韭目　Isoetales==
===162. [[水韭科]]　Isoetaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[水韭属]]'''　'''''Isoetes''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[陆水韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cephaloceraton'''''|i}} Gennari
==50. 卷柏目　Selaginellales==
===163. [[卷柏科]]　Selaginellaceae Willk.===
*1. '''[[卷柏属]]'''　'''''Selaginella''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石卷柏属]]'''　'''''Bryodesma''''' Soják
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小卷柏属]]'''　'''''Diplostachyum''''' P. Beauv.
==51. 木贼目　Equisetales==
===164. [[木贼科]]　Equisetaceae Michx. ex DC.===
*1. '''[[木贼属]]'''　'''''Equisetum''''' L.
==52. 松叶蕨目　Psilotales==
===165. [[松叶蕨科]]　Psilotaceae J. W. Griff. & Henfr.===
*1. '''[[松叶蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(松叶兰属)}}　'''''Psilotum''''' Sw.
==53. 瓶尔小草目　Ophioglossales==
===166. [[瓶尔小草科]]　Ophioglossaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[七指蕨属]]'''　'''''Helminthostachys''''' Kaulf.
*2. '''[[劲直阴地蕨属]]'''　'''''Sahashia''''' Li Bing Zhang & Liang Zhang
*3. '''[[蕨萁属]]''' {{Sm|(假阴地蕨属)}}　'''''Botrypus''''' Michx.
*4. '''[[小阴地蕨属]]'''　'''''Botrychium''''' Sw.
*5. '''[[绒毛阴地蕨属]]'''　'''''Japanobotrychum''''' Masam.
*6. '''[[阴地蕨属]]'''　'''''Sceptridium''''' Lyon
*7. '''[[瓶尔小草属]]''' {{Sm|(箭蕨属，瓶儿小草属)}}　'''''Ophioglossum''''' L.
*8. '''[[带状瓶尔小草属]]''' {{Sm|(蛇蕨属)}}　'''''Ophioderma''''' (Blume) Endl.
==54. 合囊蕨目　Marattiales==
===167. [[合囊蕨科]]　Marattiaceae Kaulf.===
*1. '''[[合囊蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(粒囊蕨属)}}　'''''Ptisana''''' Murdock
*2. '''[[天星蕨属]]'''　'''''Christensenia''''' Maxon
*3. '''[[观音座莲属]]''' {{Sm|(莲座蕨属)}}　'''''Angiopteris''''' Hoffm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[原始观音座莲属]]''' {{Sm|(原始莲座蕨属，古莲蕨属)}}　'''''Archangiopteris''''' Christ & Giesenh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾原始观音座莲属]]'''　'''''Protangiopteris''''' Hayata
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖叶原始观音座莲属]]'''　'''''Protomarattia''''' Hayata
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楔基观音座莲属]]'''　'''''Psilodochea''''' C. Presl
==55. 紫萁目　Osmundales==
===168. [[紫萁科]]　Osmundaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[桂皮紫萁属]]'''　'''''Osmundastrum''''' C. Presl
*2. '''[[绒紫萁属]]'''　'''''Claytosmunda''''' (Y. Yatabe, N. Murak. & K. Iwats.) Metzgar & Rouhan
*3. '''[[紫萁属]]'''　'''''Osmunda''''' L.
*4. '''[[羽节紫萁属]]'''　'''''Plenasium''''' C. Presl
==56. 膜蕨目　Hymenophyllales==
===169. [[膜蕨科]]　Hymenophyllaceae Mart.===
*1. '''[[膜蕨属]]'''　'''''Hymenophyllum''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柱托膜蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptocionium''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕗蕨属]]'''　'''''Mecodium''''' (Copel.) C. Presl ex Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚壁蕨属]]'''　'''''Meringium''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细口团扇蕨属]]'''　'''''Microtrichomanes''''' (Mett.) Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Pleuromanes''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星毛膜蕨属]]'''　'''''Sphaerocionium''''' C. Presl
*2. '''[[毛秆蕨属]]'''　'''''Callistopteris''''' Copel.
*3. '''[[厚叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Cephalomanes''''' C. Presl
*4. '''[[长片蕨属]]'''　'''''Abrodictyum''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长筒蕨属]]'''　'''''Selenodesmium''''' (Prantl) Copel.
*5. '''[[毛边蕨属]]'''　'''''Didymoglossum''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单叶假脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Microgonium''''' C. Presl
*6. '''[[瓶蕨属]]'''　'''''Vandenboschia''''' Copel.
*7. '''[[假脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Crepidomanes''''' (C. Presl) C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[团扇蕨属]]'''　'''''Gonocormus''''' Bosch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球秆毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Nesopteris''''' Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚边蕨属]]'''　'''''Reediella''''' Pic. Serm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南洋假脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Taschneria''''' C. Presl
==57. 里白目　Gleicheniales==
===170. [[罗伞蕨科]]　Matoniaceae C. Presl===
*1. '''[[罗伞蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(马通蕨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Matonia'''''|i}} R. Br. ex Wall.
===171. [[双扇蕨科]]　Dipteridaceae Seward & E. Dale===
*1. '''[[燕尾蕨属]]'''　'''''Cheiropleuria''''' C. Presl
*2. '''[[双扇蕨属]]'''　'''''Dipteris''''' Reinw.
===172. [[里白科]]　Gleicheniaceae C. Presl===
*1. '''[[假芒萁属]]'''　'''''Sticherus''''' C. Presl
*2. '''[[里白属]]'''　'''''Diplopterygium''''' (Diels) Nakai
*3. '''[[芒萁属]]'''　'''''Dicranopteris''''' Bernh.
==58. 莎草蕨目　Schizaeales==
===173. [[海金沙科]]　Lygodiaceae M. Roem.===
*1. '''[[海金沙属]]'''　'''''Lygodium''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[掌叶海金沙属]]'''　'''''Hydroglossum''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳叶海金沙属]]'''　'''''Ugena''''' Cav.
===174. [[莎草蕨科]]　Schizaeaceae Kaulf.===
*1. '''[[莎草蕨属]]'''　'''''Actinostachys''''' Wall.
*2. '''[[枝莎蕨属]]'''　'''''Schizaea''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽莎蕨属]]'''　'''''Lophidium''''' Rich.
===175. [[双穗蕨科]]　Anemiaceae Link===
*1. '''[[双穗蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(密穗蕨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anemia'''''|i}} Sw.
==59. 槐叶蘋目　Salviniales==
===176. [[槐叶蘋科]]　Salviniaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[满江红属]]'''　'''''Azolla''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲满江红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carpanthus'''''|i}} Raf.
*2. '''[[槐叶蘋属]]''' {{Sm|(槐叶萍属，槐叶苹属)}}　'''''Salvinia''''' Ség.
===177. [[蘋科]]　Marsileaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[蘋属]]''' {{Sm|(苹属)}}　'''''Marsilea''''' L.
*2. '''[[二叶蘋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Regnellidium'''''|i}} Lindm.
*3. '''[[线叶蘋属]]''' {{Sm|(针叶蘋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pilularia'''''|i}} L.
==60. 桫椤目　Cyatheales==
===178. [[瘤足蕨科]]　Plagiogyriaceae Bower===
*1. '''[[瘤足蕨属]]'''　'''''Plagiogyria''''' (Kunze) Mett.
===179. [[金毛狗科]]　Cibotiaceae Korall===
*1. '''[[金毛狗属]]'''　'''''Cibotium''''' Kaulf.
===180. [[蚌壳蕨科]]　Dicksoniaceae M. R. Schomb.===
*1. '''[[蚌壳蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dicksonia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
===181. [[桫椤科]]　Cyatheaceae Kaulf.===
*1. '''[[白桫椤属]]'''　'''''Sphaeropteris''''' Bernh.
*2. '''[[番桫椤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyathea'''''|i}} Sm.
*3. '''[[黑桫椤属]]'''　'''''Gymnosphaera''''' Blume
*4. '''[[桫椤属]]'''　'''''Alsophila''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阴生桫椤属]]'''　'''''Dichorexia''''' C. Presl
==61. 水龙骨目　Polypodiales==
===182. [[鳞始蕨科]]　Lindsaeaceae C. Presl ex M. R. Schomb.===
*1. '''[[乌蕨属]]'''　'''''Odontosoria''''' Fée
*2. '''[[鳞始蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(陵齿蕨属，林蕨属)}}　'''''Lindsaea''''' Dryand. ex Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双唇蕨属]]'''　'''''Schizoloma''''' Gaudich.
*3. '''[[达边蕨属]]'''　'''''Tapeinidium''''' (C. Presl) C. Chr.
*4. '''[[香鳞始蕨属]]'''　'''''Osmolindsaea''''' (K. U. Kramer) Lehtonen & Christenh.
===183. [[凤尾蕨科]]　Pteridaceae E. D. M. Kirchn.===
*1. '''[[珠蕨属]]'''　'''''Cryptogramma''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[波叶珠蕨属]]'''　'''''Phorolobus''''' Desv.
*2. '''[[凤了蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(凤丫蕨属)}}　'''''Coniogramme''''' Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单网凤了蕨属]]'''　'''''× Coniodictyogramme''''' Nakai
*3. '''[[卤蕨属]]'''　'''''Acrostichum''''' L.
*4. '''[[水蕨属]]'''　'''''Ceratopteris''''' Brongn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗梗水蕨属]]'''　'''''Parkeria''''' Hook.
*5. '''[[凤尾蕨属]]'''　'''''Pteris''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网眼凤尾蕨属]]'''　'''''Campteria''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阴凤蕨属]]'''　'''''Pycnodoria''''' C. Presl
*6. '''[[眉刷蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(扇掌蕨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Actiniopteris'''''|i}} Link
*7. '''[[金粉蕨属]]'''　'''''Onychium''''' Kaulf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[栗柄金粉蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptostegia''''' D. Don
*8. '''[[薄叶翠蕨属]]'''　'''''Anogramma''''' Link
*9. '''[[翠蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(蜡囊蕨属)}}　'''''Cerosora''''' Domin
*10. '''[[粉叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Pityrogramma''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉棒蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Pityromeria'''''|i}} L. D. Gómez
*11. '''[[天梯蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jamesonia'''''|i}} Hook. & Grev.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[栗发蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriosorus'''''|i}} Fée
*12. '''[[竹叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Taenitis''''' Willd. ex Schkuhr
*13. '''[[铁线蕨属]]'''　'''''Adiantum''''' L.
*14. '''[[针叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Vaginularia''''' Fée
*15. '''[[书带蕨属]]'''　'''''Haplopteris''''' C. Presl
*16. '''[[车前蕨属]]'''　'''''Antrophyum''''' Kaulf.
*17. '''[[戟叶黑心蕨属]]'''　'''''Calciphilopteris''''' Yesilyurt & H. Schneid.
*18. '''[[银旱蕨属]]'''　'''''Argyrochosma''''' (J. Sm.) Windham
*19. '''[[欧金毛裸蕨属]]'''　'''''Paragymnopteris''''' K. H. Shing
*20. '''[[金毛裸蕨属]]'''　'''''Paraceterach''''' Copel.
*21. '''[[峭壁蕨属]]'''　'''''Pellaea''''' Link
*22. '''[[隐囊蕨属]]'''　'''''Notholaena''''' R. Br.
*23. '''[[碎米蕨属]]'''　'''''Cheilanthes''''' Sw.
*24. '''[[粉背蕨属]]'''　'''''Aleuritopteris''''' Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄鳞蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptolepidium''''' K. H. Shing & S. K. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中国蕨属]]'''　'''''Sinopteris''''' C. Chr. & Ching
*25. '''[[泽泻蕨属]]'''　'''''Mickelopteris''''' Fraser-Jenk.
*26. '''[[黑心蕨属]]'''　'''''Doryopteris''''' J. Sm.
===184. [[碗蕨科]]　Dennstaedtiaceae Lotsy===
*1. '''[[稀子蕨属]]'''　'''''Monachosorum''''' Kunze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩穴蕨属]]'''　'''''Ptilopteris''''' Hance
*2. '''[[蕨属]]'''　'''''Pteridium''''' Gled. ex Scop.
*3. '''[[姬蕨属]]'''　'''''Hypolepis''''' Bernh.
*4. '''[[卫蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hiya'''''|i}} H. Shang
*5. '''[[曲轴蕨属]]'''　'''''Paesia''''' A. St.-Hil.
*6. '''[[栗蕨属]]'''　'''''Histiopteris''''' (J. Agardh) J. Sm.
*7. '''[[鳞盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Microlepia''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[热带鳞盖蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scyphofilix'''''|i}} Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[波缘鳞盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Scypholepia''''' J. Sm.
*8. '''[[溪洞碗蕨属]]'''　'''''Coptidipteris''''' Nakai & Momose
*9. '''[[碗蕨属(狭义)]]'''　'''''Sitobolium''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[烟斗蕨属]]'''　'''''Emodiopteris''''' Ching & S. K. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细毛碗蕨属]]'''　'''''Fuziifilix''''' Nakai & Momose
*10. '''[[碗蕨属]]'''　'''''Dennstaedtia''''' Bernh.
===185. [[冷蕨科]]　Cystopteridaceae Shmakov===
*1. '''[[羽节蕨属]]'''　'''''Gymnocarpium''''' Newman
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东亚羽节蕨属]]'''　'''''Currania''''' Copel.
*2. '''[[亮毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Acystopteris''''' Nakai
*3. '''[[冷蕨属]]'''　'''''Cystopteris''''' Bernh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Cystoathyrium''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山冷蕨属]]'''　'''''Rhizomatopteris''''' A. P. Khokhr.
===186. [[轴果蕨科]]　Rhachidosoraceae X. C. Zhang===
*1. '''[[轴果蕨属]]'''　'''''Rhachidosorus''''' Ching
===187. [[肠蕨科]]　Diplaziopsidaceae X. C. Zhang & Christenh.===
*1. '''[[肠蕨属]]'''　'''''Diplaziopsis''''' C. Chr.
===188. [[铁角蕨科]]　Aspleniaceae Newman===
*1. '''[[膜叶铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Hymenasplenium''''' Hayata
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细辛蕨属]]'''　'''''Boniniella''''' Hayata
*2. '''[[铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Asplenium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉叶铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Acropteris''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网脉铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Asplenidictyum''''' J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[过山蕨属]]'''　'''''Camptosorus''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[药蕨属]]'''　'''''Ceterach''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苍山蕨属]]'''　'''''Ceterachopsis''''' (J. Sm.) Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓍叶铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Darea''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[巢蕨属]]'''　'''''Neottopteris''''' J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对开蕨属]]'''　'''''Phyllitis''''' Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽开蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Phyllitopsis'''''|i}} Reichst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水鳖蕨属]]'''　'''''Sinephropteris''''' Mickel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隆脉铁角蕨属]]'''　'''''Tarachia''''' C. Presl
===189. [[岩蕨科]]　Woodsiaceae Herter===
*1. '''[[岩蕨属]]'''　'''''Woodsia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜘蛛蕨属]]'''　'''''Eriosoriopsis''''' (Kitag.) Ching & S. H. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西疆岩蕨属]]'''　'''''Trichocyclus''''' Dulac
*2. '''[[二羽岩蕨属]]'''　'''''Physematium''''' Kaulf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇蕨属]]'''　'''''Cheilanthopsis''''' Hieron.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[膀胱蕨属]]'''　'''''Protowoodsia''''' Ching
===190. [[球子蕨科]]　Onocleaceae Pic. Serm.===
*1. '''[[东方荚果蕨属]]'''　'''''Pentarhizidium''''' Hayata
*2. '''[[球子蕨属]]'''　'''''Onoclea''''' L.
*3. '''[[荚果蕨属]]'''　'''''Matteuccia''''' Tod.
===191. [[乌毛蕨科]]　Blechnaceae Newman===
*1. '''[[狗脊属]]'''　'''''Woodwardia''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[崇澍蕨属]]'''　'''''Chieniopteris''''' Ching
*2. '''[[光叶藤蕨属]]'''　'''''Stenochlaena''''' J. Sm.
*3. '''[[苏铁蕨属]]'''　'''''Brainea''''' J. Sm.
*4. '''[[狮头蕨属]]'''　'''''Spicantopsis''''' Nakai
*5. '''[[乌木蕨属]]'''　'''''Blechnidium''''' T. Moore
*6. '''[[鹿蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Struthiopteris'''''|i}} Scop.
*7. '''[[乌毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Blechnopsis''''' C. Presl
*8. '''[[荚囊蕨属]]'''　'''''Cleistoblechnum''''' Gasper & Salino
*9. '''[[红猪蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sadleria'''''|i}} Kaulf.
*10. '''[[南丘蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Austroblechnum'''''|i}} Gasper & V. A. O. Dittrich
*11. '''[[扫把蕨属]]'''　'''''Diploblechnum''''' Hayata
*12. '''[[红椿蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neoblechnum'''''|i}} Gasper & V. A. O. Dittrich
*13. '''[[矮树蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oceaniopteris'''''|i}} Gasper & Salino
===192. [[蹄盖蕨科]]　Athyriaceae Alston===
*1. '''[[对囊蕨属]]'''　'''''Deparia''''' Hook. & Grev.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假蹄盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Athyriopsis''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网蕨属]]'''　'''''Dictyodroma''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[介蕨属]]'''　'''''Dryoathyrium''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛾眉蕨属]]'''　'''''Lunathyrium''''' Koidz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单叶双盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Neotriblemma''''' Nakaike
*2. '''[[双盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Diplazium''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短肠蕨属]]'''　'''''Allantodia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[梣叶菜蕨属]]'''　'''''Anisogonium''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菜蕨属]]'''　'''''Callipteris''''' Bory
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛轴线盖蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(毛子蕨属)}}　'''''Monomelangium''''' Hayata
*3. '''[[安蕨属]]'''　'''''Anisocampium''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Kuniwatsukia''''' Pic. Serm.
*4. '''[[蹄盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Athyrium''''' Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假冷蕨属]]'''　'''''Pseudocystopteris''''' Ching
*5. '''[[角蕨属]]'''　'''''Cornopteris''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新蹄盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Neoathyrium''''' Ching & Z. R. Wang
===193. [[金星蕨科]]　Thelypteridaceae Pic. Serm.===
*1. '''[[针毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Macrothelypteris''''' (H. Ito) Ching
*2. '''[[卵果蕨属]]'''　'''''Phegopteris''''' (C. Presl) Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[延羽卵果蕨属]]'''　'''''Lastrella''''' (H. Ito) Nakai
*3. '''[[紫柄蕨属]]'''　'''''Pseudophegopteris''''' Ching
*4. '''[[沼泽蕨属]]'''　'''''Thelypteris''''' Schmidel
*5. '''[[栗金星蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(栗柄金星蕨属)}}　'''''Coryphopteris''''' Holttum
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麻省栗金星蕨属]]'''　'''''Wagneriopteris''''' &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve & D. L&ouml;ve
*6. '''[[凸轴蕨属]]'''　'''''Metathelypteris''''' (H. Ito) Ching
*7. '''[[金星蕨属]]'''　'''''Parathelypteris''''' (H. Ito) Ching
*8. '''[[假鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Oreopteris''''' Holub
*9. '''[[钩毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Cyclogramma''''' Tagawa
*10. '''[[溪边蕨属]]'''　'''''Stegnogramma''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圣蕨属]]'''　'''''Dictyocline''''' T. Moore
*11. '''[[茯蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptogramma''''' J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[边果蕨属]]'''　'''''Craspedosorus''''' Ching & W. M. Chu
*12. '''[[毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Cyclosorus''''' Link
*13. '''[[星毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Ampelopteris''''' Kunze
*14. '''[[中脉蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mesophlebion'''''|i}} Holttum
*15. '''[[方秆蕨属]]'''　'''''Glaphyropteridopsis''''' Ching
*16. '''[[龙津蕨属]]'''　'''''Mesopteris''''' Ching
*17. '''[[新月蕨属]]'''　'''''Pronephrium''''' C. Presl
*18. '''[[三槽蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(三槽孢蕨属)}}　'''''Trigonospora''''' Holttum
*19. '''[[圆腺蕨属]]'''　'''''Sphaerostephanos''''' J. Sm.
*20. '''[[假毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Pseudocyclosorus''''' Ching
*21. '''[[硫腺蕨属]]'''　'''''Amblovenatum''''' J. P. Roux
*22. '''[[小毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Christella''''' H. Lév.
===194. [[翼囊蕨科]]　Didymochlaenaceae Ching ex Li Bing Zhang & Liang Zhang===
*1. '''[[翼囊蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(翼盖蕨属)}}　'''''Didymochlaena''''' Desv.
===195. [[肿足蕨科]]　Hypodematiaceae Ching===
*1. '''[[大膜盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Leucostegia''''' C. Presl
*2. '''[[肿足蕨属]]'''　'''''Hypodematium''''' Kunze
===196. [[鳞毛蕨科]]　Dryopteridaceae Herter===
*1. '''[[节毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Lastreopsis''''' Ching
*2. '''[[革叶蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(汝蕨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rumohra'''''|i}} Raddi
*3. '''[[黄腺羽蕨属]]'''　'''''Pleocnemia''''' C. Presl
*4. '''[[实蕨属]]'''　'''''Bolbitis''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[婴叶蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Edanyoa'''''|i}} Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺蕨属]]'''　'''''Egenolfia''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽羽实蕨属]]'''　'''''Jenkinsia''''' Hook.
*5. '''[[网藤蕨属]]'''　'''''Lomagramma''''' J. Sm.
*6. '''[[符藤蕨属]]'''　'''''Teratophyllum''''' Mett. ex Kuhn
*7. '''[[舌蕨属]]'''　'''''Elaphoglossum''''' Schott ex J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[脉舌蕨属]]'''　'''''Aconiopteris''''' C. Presl
*8. '''[[毛脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Trichoneuron''''' Ching
*9. '''[[肋毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Ctenitis''''' (C. Chr.) C. Chr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三相蕨属]]'''　'''''Ataxipteris''''' Holttum
*10. '''[[贯众属]]'''　'''''Cyrtomium''''' C. Presl
*11. '''[[耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Polystichum''''' Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[峨眉耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Acropelta''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Cyrtogonellum''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞭叶蕨属]]'''　'''''Cyrtomidictyum''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Hypopeltis''''' Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉龙蕨属]]'''　'''''Sorolepidium''''' Christ
*12. '''[[复叶耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Arachniodes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺头复叶耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Byrsopteris''''' C. V. Morton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛枝蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptorumohra''''' (H. Ito) H. Ito
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Lithostegia''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黔蕨属]]'''　'''''Phanerophlebiopsis''''' Ching
*13. '''[[鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Dryopteris''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鱼鳞蕨属]]'''　'''''Acrophorus''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假复叶耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Acrorumohra''''' (H. Ito) H. Ito
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红腺蕨属]]'''　'''''Diacalpe''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大羽鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Dichasium''''' (A. Braun) Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轴鳞蕨属]]'''　'''''Dryopsis''''' Holttum & P. J. Edwards
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺叶鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Lophodium''''' Newman
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉刺蕨属]]'''　'''''Nothoperanema''''' (Tagawa) Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柄盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Peranema''''' D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇羽鳞毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Pycnopteris''''' T. Moore
===197. [[肾蕨科]]　Nephrolepidaceae Pic. Serm.===
*1. '''[[肾蕨属]]'''　'''''Nephrolepis''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长叶肾蕨属]]'''　'''''Lepidoneuron''''' Fée
===198. [[藤蕨科]]　Lomariopsidaceae Alston===
*1. '''[[拟贯众属]]'''　'''''Cyclopeltis''''' J. Sm.
*2. '''[[藤蕨属]]'''　'''''Lomariopsis''''' Fée
===199. [[牙蕨科]]　Pteridryaceae Li Bing Zhang, X. M. Zhou, Liang Zhang & N. T. Lu===
*1. '''[[马来蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malaifilix'''''|i}} Li Bing Zhang & Schuettp.
*2. '''[[多网蕨属]]'''　'''''Polydictyum''''' C. Presl
*3. '''[[牙蕨属]]'''　'''''Pteridrys''''' C. Chr. & Ching

===200. [[爬树蕨科]]　Arthropteridaceae Hong M. Liu, Hovenkamp & H. Schneid.===
*1. '''[[爬树蕨属]]'''　'''''Arthropteris''''' J. Sm.
===201. [[三叉蕨科]]　Tectariaceae Panigrahi===
*1. '''[[三叉蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(叉蕨属)}}　'''''Tectaria''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轴脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Ctenitopsis''''' Ching ex Tardieu & C. Chr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小月三叉蕨属]]'''　'''''Dryomenis''''' Fée ex J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙皮蕨属]]'''　'''''Hemigramma''''' Christ
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[镰基蕨属]]'''　'''''Heterogonium''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疣状三叉蕨属]]'''　'''''Phlebiogonium''''' Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地耳蕨属]]'''　'''''Quercifilix''''' Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大囊三叉蕨属]]'''　'''''Sagenia''''' C. Presl
===202. [[蓧蕨科]]　Oleandraceae Ching ex Pic. Serm.===
*1. '''[[蓧蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(条蕨属)}}　'''''Oleandra''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山蓧蕨属]]'''　'''''Neuronia''''' D. Don
===203. [[骨碎补科]]　Davalliaceae M. R. Schomb.===
*1. '''[[骨碎补属]]'''　'''''Davallia''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小膜盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Araiostegia''''' Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞轴蕨属]]'''　'''''Araiostegiella''''' M. Kato & Tsutsumi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钻毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Davallodes''''' (Copel.) Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阴石蕨属]]'''　'''''Humata''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美小膜盖蕨属]]'''　'''''Katoella''''' Fraser-Jenk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假钻毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Paradavallodes''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大骨碎补属]]'''　'''''Parestia''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔叶骨碎补属]]'''　'''''Stenolobus''''' C. Presl
===204. [[水龙骨科]]　Polypodiaceae J. Presl & C. Presl===
*1. '''[[剑蕨属]]'''　'''''Loxogramme''''' (Blume) C. Presl
*2. '''[[槲蕨属]]'''　'''''Drynaria''''' (Bory) J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[连珠蕨属]]'''　'''''Aglaomorpha''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[连珠槲蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Aglaonaria'''''|i}} Hoshiz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[戟蕨属]]'''　'''''Christopteris''''' Copel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棋链蕨属]]'''　'''''Dryostachium''''' J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[顶育蕨属]]'''　'''''Photinopteris''''' J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[崖姜属]]'''　'''''Pseudodrynaria''''' C. Chr.
*3. '''[[修蕨属]]'''　'''''Selliguea''''' Bory
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[节肢蕨属]]'''　'''''Arthromeris''''' (T. Moore) J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐子蕨属]]'''　'''''Crypsinus''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雨蕨属]]'''　'''''Gymnogrammitis''''' Griff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锡金假瘤蕨属]]'''　'''''Himalayopteris''''' W. Shao & S. G. Lu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假瘤蕨属]]'''　'''''Phymatopteris''''' Pic. Serm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[齿瘤蕨属]]'''　'''''Pichisermollodes''''' Fraser-Jenk.
*4. '''[[石韦属]]'''　'''''Pyrrosia''''' Mirb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柱状石韦属]]'''　'''''Apalophlebia''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南洋石韦属]]'''　'''''Candollea''''' Mirb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[抱树莲属]]'''　'''''Drymoglossum''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钱币石韦属]]'''　'''''Galeoglossa''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线叶石韦属]]'''　'''''Neoniphopsis''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贴生石韦属]]'''　'''''Niphobolus''''' Kaulf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石蕨属]]'''　'''''Saxiglossum''''' Ching
*5. '''[[鹿角蕨属]]'''　'''''Platycerium''''' Desv.
*6. '''[[棱脉蕨属]]'''　'''''Goniophlebium''''' (Blume) C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[篦齿蕨属]]'''　'''''Metapolypodium''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟水龙骨属]]'''　'''''Polypodiastrum''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水龙骨属]]'''　'''''Polypodiodes''''' Ching
*7. '''[[膜叶星蕨属]]'''　'''''Bosmania''''' Testo
*8. '''[[蚁蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lecanopteris'''''|i}} Reinw.
*9. '''[[瓦韦属]]'''　'''''Lepisorus''''' (J. Sm.) Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖嘴蕨属]]'''　'''''Belvisia''''' Mirb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高平蕨属]]'''　'''''Caobangia''''' A. R. Sm. & X. C. Zhang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝带蕨属]]'''　'''''Drymotaenium''''' Makino
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度瓦韦属]]'''　'''''Ellipinema''''' Li Bing Zhang & Liang Zhang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伏石蕨属]]'''　'''''Lemmaphyllum''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[骨牌蕨属]]'''　'''''Lepidogrammitis''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞果星蕨属]]'''　'''''Lepidomicrosorium''''' Ching & K. H. Shing
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖舌蕨属]]'''　'''''Macroplethus''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扇蕨属]]'''　'''''Neocheiropteris''''' Christ
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盾蕨属]]'''　'''''Neolepisorus''''' Ching
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽带蕨属]]'''　'''''Platygyria''''' Ching & S. K. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛鳞蕨属]]'''　'''''Tricholepidium''''' Ching
*10. '''[[星蕨属]]'''　'''''Microsorum''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瘤蕨属]]'''　'''''Phymatosorus''''' Pic. Serm.
*11. '''[[薄唇蕨属]]'''　'''''Leptochilus''''' Kaulf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线蕨属]]'''　'''''Colysis''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[树舌蕨属]]'''　'''''Dendroglossa''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅星蕨属]]'''　'''''Kaulinia''''' B. K. Nayar
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶薄唇蕨属]]'''　'''''Myuropteris''''' C. Chr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[似薄唇蕨属]]'''　'''''Paraleptochilus''''' Copel.
*12. '''[[睫毛蕨属]]'''　'''''Pleurosoriopsis''''' Fomin
*13. '''[[多足蕨属]]'''　'''''Polypodium''''' L.
*14. '''[[金水龙骨属]]''' {{Sm|(粗脉蕨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phlebodium'''''|i}} (R. Br.) J. Sm.
*15. '''[[多盾蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(拟瓦韦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pleopeltis'''''|i}} Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[百生蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marginaria'''''|i}} Bory
*16. '''[[小蛇蕨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Microgramma'''''|i}} C. Presl
*17. '''[[金禾蕨属]]'''　'''''Chrysogrammitis''''' Parris
*18. '''[[毛禾蕨属]]'''　'''''Dasygrammitis''''' Parris
*19. '''[[革舌蕨属]]'''　'''''Scleroglossum''''' Alderw.
*20. '''[[裂禾蕨属]]''' {{Sm|(虎尾蒿蕨属)}}　'''''Tomophyllum''''' (E. Fourn.) Parris
*21. '''[[锯蕨属]]'''　'''''Micropolypodium''''' Hayata
*22. '''[[剑羽蕨属]]'''　'''''Xiphopterella''''' Parris
*23. '''[[荷包蕨属]]'''　'''''Calymmodon''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疏毛荷包蕨属]]'''　'''''Plectopteris''''' Fée
*24. '''[[小蒿蕨属]]'''　'''''Ctenopterella''''' Parris
*25. '''[[穴子蕨属]]'''　'''''Prosaptia''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密毛穴子蕨属]]'''　'''''Cryptosorus''''' Fée
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南穴子蕨属]]'''　'''''Ctenopteris''''' Blume ex Kunze
*26. '''[[辐禾蕨属]]'''　'''''Radiogrammitis''''' Parris
*27. '''[[滨禾蕨属]]'''　'''''Oreogrammitis''''' Copel.
*28. '''[[蒿蕨属]]'''　'''''Themelium''''' (T. Moore) Parris
==62. 苏铁目　Cycadales==
===205. [[苏铁科]]　Cycadaceae Pers.===
*1. '''[[苏铁属]]'''　'''''Cycas''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉叶苏铁属]]'''　'''''Dyerocycas''''' Nakai
===206. [[泽米铁科]]　Zamiaceae Horan.===
*1. '''[[双子铁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dioon'''''|i}} Lindl.
*2. '''[[多羽铁属]]''' {{Sm|(波温铁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bowenia'''''|i}} Hook. ex Hook. f.
*3. '''[[澳洲铁属]]''' {{Sm|(鬼苏铁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Macrozamia'''''|i}} Miq.
*4. '''[[鳞木铁属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞叶铁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lepidozamia'''''|i}} Regel
*5. '''[[非洲铁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Encephalartos'''''|i}} Lehm.
*6. '''[[角状铁属]]''' {{Sm|(角果铁属，角状泽米属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ceratozamia'''''|i}} Brongn.
*7. '''[[蕨铁属]]''' {{Sm|(托叶铁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stangeria'''''|i}} T. Moore
*8. '''[[小苏铁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Microcycas'''''|i}} (Miq.) A. DC.
*9. '''[[泽米铁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zamia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沟扇铁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aulacophyllum'''''|i}} Regel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇寡铁属]]''' {{Sm|(哥伦比亚铁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chigua'''''|i}} D. W. Stev.
==63. 银杏目　Ginkgoales==
===207. [[银杏科]]　Ginkgoaceae Engl.===
*1. '''[[银杏属]]'''　'''''Ginkgo''''' L.
==64. 南洋杉目　Araucariales==
===208. [[南洋杉科]]　Araucariaceae Henkel & W. Hochst.===
*1. '''[[南洋杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Araucaria'''''|i}} Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异叶南洋杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eutassa'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶南洋杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marywildea'''''|i}} A. V. Bobrov & Melikyan
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亮叶南洋杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Titanodendron'''''|i}} A. V. Bobrov & Melikyan
*2. '''[[凤尾杉属]]''' {{Sm|(瓦勒迈杉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Wollemia'''''|i}} W. G. Jones, K. D. Hill & J. M. Allen
*3. '''[[贝壳杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agathis'''''|i}} Salisb.
===209. [[罗汉松科]]　Podocarpaceae Endl.===
*1. '''[[叶枝杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phyllocladus'''''|i}} Rich. ex Mirb.
*2. '''[[核果杉属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞梗杉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Prumnopitys'''''|i}} Phil.
*3. '''[[鸡毛松属]]'''　'''''Dacrycarpus''''' (Endl.) de Laub.
*4. '''[[陆均松属]]'''　'''''Dacrydium''''' Sol. ex G. Forst.
*5. '''[[罗汉松属]]'''　'''''Podocarpus''''' L'Hér. ex Pers.
*6. '''[[扭叶杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Retrophyllum'''''|i}} C. N. Page
*7. '''[[非洲杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Afrocarpus'''''|i}} (J. Buchholz & E. G. Gray) C. N. Page
*8. '''[[竹柏属]]'''　'''''Nageia''''' Gaertn.
==65. 金松目　Sciadopityales==
===210. [[金松科]]　Sciadopityaceae Luerss.===
*1. '''[[金松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sciadopitys'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
==66. 柏目　Cupressales==
===211. [[柏科]]　Cupressaceae Gray===
*1. '''[[杉木属]]'''　'''''Cunninghamia''''' R. Br. ex A. Rich.
*2. '''[[台湾杉属]]'''　'''''Taiwania''''' Hayata
*3. '''[[水杉属]]'''　'''''Metasequoia''''' Hu & W. C. Cheng
*4. '''[[北美红杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sequoia'''''|i}} Endl.
*5. '''[[巨杉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sequoiadendron'''''|i}} J. Buchholz
*6. '''[[柳杉属]]'''　'''''Cryptomeria''''' D. Don
*7. '''[[水松属]]'''　'''''Glyptostrobus''''' Endl.
*8. '''[[落羽杉属]]''' {{Sm|(落羽松属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Taxodium'''''|i}} Rich.
*9. '''[[南非柏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Widdringtonia'''''|i}} Endl.
*10. '''[[星鳞柏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Actinostrobus'''''|i}} Miq.
*11. '''[[澳柏属]]''' {{Sm|(柏松属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Callitris'''''|i}} Vent.
*12. '''[[罗汉柏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thujopsis'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc. ex Endl.
*13. '''[[崖柏属]]'''　'''''Thuja''''' L.
*14. '''[[福建柏属]]'''　'''''Fokienia''''' A. Henry & H. H. Thomas
*15. '''[[扁柏属]]'''　'''''Chamaecyparis''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本扁柏属]]'''　'''''Retinispora''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*16. '''[[翠柏属]]'''　'''''Calocedrus''''' Kurz
*17. '''[[香漆柏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetraclinis'''''|i}} Mast.
*18. '''[[胡柏属]]''' {{Sm|(小侧柏属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Microbiota'''''|i}} Kom.
*19. '''[[侧柏属]]'''　'''''Platycladus''''' Spach
*20. '''[[金柏属]]''' {{Sm|(黄金柏属)}}　'''''Xanthocyparis''''' Farjon & T. H. Nguyên
*21. '''[[北美金柏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Callitropsis'''''|i}} Oerst.
*22. '''[[美洲柏木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hesperocyparis'''''|i}} Bartel & R. A. Price
*23. '''[[柏木属]]'''　'''''Cupressus''''' L.
*24. '''[[刺柏属]]'''　'''''Juniperus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆柏属]]'''　'''''Sabina''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山柏属]]'''　'''''Sabinella''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西伯利亚刺柏属]]'''　'''''Thuiaecarpus''''' Trautv.
===212. [[红豆杉科]]　Taxaceae Gray===
*1. '''[[白豆杉属]]'''　'''''Pseudotaxus''''' W. C. Cheng
*2. '''[[红豆杉属]]''' {{Sm|(紫杉属)}}　'''''Taxus''''' L.
*3. '''[[三尖杉属]]'''　'''''Cephalotaxus''''' Siebold & Zucc. ex Endl.
*4. '''[[穗花杉属]]'''　'''''Amentotaxus''''' Pilg.
*5. '''[[榧属]]''' {{Sm|(榧树属)}}　'''''Torreya''''' Arn.
==67. 松目　Pinales==
===213. [[松科]]　Pinaceae Spreng. ex F. Rudolphi===
*1. '''[[雪松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cedrus'''''|i}} Trew
*2. '''[[油杉属]]'''　'''''Keteleeria''''' Carrière
*3. '''[[冷杉属]]'''　'''''Abies''''' Mill.
*4. '''[[金钱松属]]'''　'''''Pseudolarix''''' Gordon
*5. '''[[长苞铁杉属]]'''　'''''Nothotsuga''''' Hu ex C. N. Page
*6. '''[[铁杉属]]'''　'''''Tsuga''''' (Endl.) Carrière
*7. '''[[黄杉属]]'''　'''''Pseudotsuga''''' Carrière
*8. '''[[落叶松属]]'''　'''''Larix''''' Mill.
*9. '''[[银杉属]]'''　'''''Cathaya''''' Chun & Kuang
*10. '''[[云杉属]]'''　'''''Picea''''' A. Dietr.
*11. '''[[松属]]'''　'''''Pinus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[果松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caryopitys'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五针松属]]'''　'''''Cembra''''' Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[意大利松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pinea'''''|i}} Wolf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美乔松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Strobus'''''|i}} Opiz
==68. 麻黄目　Ephedrales==
===214. [[麻黄科]]　Ephedraceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[麻黄属]]'''　'''''Ephedra''''' Tourn. ex L.
==69. 百岁兰目　Welwitschiales==
===215. [[百岁兰科]]　Welwitschiaceae Caruel===
*1. '''[[百岁兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Welwitschia'''''|i}} Hook. f.
==70. 买麻藤目　Gnetales==
===216. [[买麻藤科]]　Gnetaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[买麻藤属]]''' {{Sm|(倪藤属)}}　'''''Gnetum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小叶买麻藤属]]'''　'''''Abutua''''' Lour.
==71. 无油樟目　Amborellales==
===217. [[无油樟科]]　Amborellaceae Pichon===
*1. '''[[无油樟属]]''' {{Sm|(互叶梅属，毛脚树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Amborella'''''|i}} Baill.
==72. 睡莲目　Nymphaeales==
===218. [[莼菜科]]　Cabombaceae Rich. ex A. Rich.===
*1. '''[[莼菜属]]''' {{Sm|(莼属)}}　'''''Brasenia''''' Schreb.
*2. '''[[水盾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cabomba'''''|v}} Aubl.
===219. [[睡莲科]]　Nymphaeaceae Salisb.===
*1. '''[[萍蓬草属]]'''　'''''Nuphar''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[箭叶萍蓬草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ropalon'''''|i}} Raf.
*2. '''[[合瓣莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barclaya'''''|i}} Wall.
*3. '''[[芡属]]'''　'''''Euryale''''' Salisb. ex K. D. Koenig & Sims
*4. '''[[王莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Victoria'''''|i}} Lindl.
*5. '''[[睡莲属]]'''　'''''Nymphaea''''' L.
==73. 木兰藤目　Austrobaileyales==
===220. [[五味子科]]　Schisandraceae Blume===
*1. '''[[八角属]]'''　'''''Illicium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄八角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cymbostemon'''''|i}} Spach
*2. '''[[南五味子属]]''' {{Sm|(冷饭藤属)}}　'''''Kadsura''''' Kaempf. ex Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑老虎属]]'''　'''''Cosbaea''''' Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁箍散属]]'''　'''''Sphaerostema''''' Blume
*3. '''[[五味子属]]'''　'''''Schisandra''''' Michx.
==74. 白樟目　Canellales==
===221. [[白樟科]]　Canellaceae Mart.===
*1. '''[[十数樟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Warburgia'''''|i}} Engl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[椒皮樟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chibaca'''''|i}} G. Bertol.
===222. [[林仙科]]　Winteraceae R. Br. ex Lindl.===
*1. '''[[单性林仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tasmannia'''''|i}} R. Br. ex DC.
*2. '''[[林仙属]]''' {{Sm|(假八角属，冬木属，辛辣木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Drimys'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
==75. 胡椒目　Piperales==
===223. [[三白草科]]　Saururaceae Rich. ex T. Lestib.===
*1. '''[[蕺菜属]]'''　'''''Houttuynia''''' Thunb.
*2. '''[[三白草属]]'''　'''''Saururus''''' L.
*3. '''[[裸蒴属]]'''　'''''Gymnotheca''''' Decne.
===224. [[胡椒科]]　Piperaceae Giseke===
*1. '''[[齐头绒属]]'''　'''''Zippelia''''' Blume
*2. '''[[草胡椒属]]'''　'''''Peperomia''''' Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆币椒草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acrocarpidium'''''|i}} Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶椒草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhynchophorum'''''|i}} (Miq.) Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白尾椒草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trigonanthera'''''|i}} André
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[豆瓣绿属]]'''　'''''Troxirum''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[胡椒属]]'''　'''''Piper''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒌叶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Betela'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[离苞胡椒属]]'''　'''''Chavica''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[两性胡椒属]]'''　'''''Coccobryon''''' Klotzsch ex Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[荜澄茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cubeba'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大胡椒属]]'''　'''''Lepianthes''''' Raf.
===225. [[马兜铃科]]　Aristolochiaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[马蹄香属]]'''　'''''Saruma''''' Oliv.
*2. '''[[细辛属]]'''　'''''Asarum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地花细辛属]]'''　'''''Geotaenium''''' F. Maek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杜衡属]]'''　'''''Heterotropa''''' C. Morren & Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双叶细辛属]]'''　'''''Japonasarum''''' Nakai
*3. '''[[线果兜铃属]]'''　'''''Thottea''''' Rottb.
*4. '''[[关木通属]]'''　'''''Isotrema''''' Raf.
*5. '''[[马兜铃属]]'''　'''''Aristolochia''''' L.
==76. 木兰目　Magnoliales==
===226. [[肉豆蔻科]]　Myristicaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[内毛楠属]]'''　'''''Endocomia''''' W. J. de Wilde
*2. '''[[风吹楠属]]'''　'''''Horsfieldia''''' Willd.
*3. '''[[红光树属]]''' {{Sm|(争光木属)}}　'''''Knema''''' Lour.
*4. '''[[肉豆蔻属]]'''　'''''Myristica''''' Gronov.
===227. [[木兰科]]　Magnoliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[鹅掌楸属]]'''　'''''Liriodendron''''' L.
*2. '''[[长喙木兰属]]''' {{Sm|(喙木兰属)}}　'''''Lirianthe''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜香木兰属]]'''　'''''Gwillimia''''' Rottler ex DC.
*3. '''[[盖裂木属]]'''　'''''Talauma''''' Juss.
*4. '''[[北美木兰属]]''' {{Sm|(木兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Magnolia'''''|i}} Plum. ex L.
*5. '''[[木莲属]]'''　'''''Manglietia''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香木莲属]]''' {{Sm|(拟木莲属)}}　'''''Paramanglietia''''' Hu & W. C. Cheng
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华木莲属]]'''　'''''Sinomanglietia''''' Z. X. Yu
*6. '''[[厚朴属]]'''　'''''Houpoea''''' N. H. Xia & C. Y. Wu
*7. '''[[天女花属]]'''　'''''Oyama''''' (Nakai) N. H. Xia & C. Y. Wu
*8. '''[[单性木兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kmeria'''''|i}} Dandy
*9. '''[[焕镛木属]]'''　'''''Woonyoungia''''' Y. W. Law
*10. '''[[厚壁木属]]''' {{Sm|(秃木兰属)}}　'''''Pachylarnax''''' Dandy
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华盖木属]]'''　'''''Manglietiastrum''''' Y. W. Law
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[恒春拟单性木兰属]]'''　'''''Micheliopsis''''' H. Keng
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟单性木兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟&#144534;枺丽木属)}}　'''''Parakmeria''''' Hu & W. C. Cheng
*11. '''[[玉兰属]]'''　'''''Yulania''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本辛夷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kobus'''''|i}} Kaempf. ex Salisb.
*12. '''[[长蕊木兰属]]'''　'''''Alcimandra''''' Dandy
*13. '''[[含笑属]]'''　'''''Michelia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合果木属]]'''　'''''Paramichelia''''' Hu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[观光木属]]'''　'''''Tsoongiodendron''''' Chun
===228. [[番荔枝科]]　Annonaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[蒙蒿子属]]'''　'''''Anaxagorea''''' A. St.-Hil.
*2. '''[[依兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cananga'''''|i}} (DC.) Hook. f. & Thomson
*3. '''[[杯萼木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyathocalyx'''''|i}} Champ. ex Hook. f. & Thomson
*4. '''[[银钩花属]]'''　'''''Mitrephora''''' (Blume) Hook. f. & Thomson
*5. '''[[藤春属]]'''　'''''Alphonsea''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*6. '''[[野独活属]]'''　'''''Miliusa''''' Lesch. ex A. DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊瓣木属]]'''　'''''Saccopetalum''''' Benn.
*7. '''[[疣叶木属]]'''　'''''Polyalthiopsis''''' Chaowasku
*8. '''[[细基丸属]]''' {{Sm|(网脉木属)}}　'''''Huberantha''''' Chaowasku
*9. '''[[金钩花属]]'''　'''''Pseuduvaria''''' Miq.
*10. '''[[澄广花属]]'''　'''''Orophea''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蚁花属]]'''　'''''Mezzettiopsis''''' Ridl.
*11. '''[[弯瓣木属]]''' {{Sm|(亮脉木属)}}　'''''Marsypopetalum''''' Scheff.
*12. '''[[海岛木属]]'''　'''''Trivalvaria''''' (Miq.) Miq.
*13. '''[[嘉陵花属]]'''　'''''Popowia''''' Endl.
*14. '''[[暗罗属]]'''　'''''Polyalthia''''' Blume
*15. '''[[蕉木属]]'''　'''''Chieniodendron''''' Tsiang & P. T. Li
*16. '''[[鹿茸木属]]'''　'''''Meiogyne''''' Miq.
*17. '''[[征镒木属]]'''　'''''Wuodendron''''' B. Xue, Y. H. Tan & Chaowasku
*18. '''[[文采木属]]'''　'''''Wangia''''' X. Guo & R. M. K. Saunders
*19. '''[[单籽暗罗属]]''' {{Sm|(独子木属)}}　'''''Monoon''''' Miq.
*20. '''[[鹰爪花属]]'''　'''''Artabotrys''''' R. Br.
*21. '''[[木瓣树属]]'''　'''''Xylopia''''' L.
*22. '''[[哥纳香属]]'''　'''''Goniothalamus''''' (Blume) Hook. f. & Thomson
*23. '''[[番荔枝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Annona'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柱番荔枝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raimondia'''''|i}} Saff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[霹雳果属]]''' {{Sm|(罗林果属，娄林果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rollinia'''''|i}} A. St.-Hil.
*24. '''[[异萼花属]]'''　'''''Disepalum''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[九重皮属]]'''　'''''Enicosanthellum''''' Ban
*25. '''[[巴婆果属]]''' {{Sm|(泡泡果属，万寿果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Asimina'''''|i}} Adans.
*26. '''[[瓜馥木属]]'''　'''''Fissistigma''''' Griff.
*27. '''[[紫玉盘属]]'''　'''''Uvaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杯冠木属]]'''　'''''Cyathostemma''''' Griff.
*28. '''[[金帽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melodorum'''''|i}} Lour.
*29. '''[[尖花藤属]]'''　'''''Friesodielsia''''' Steenis
*30. '''[[皂帽花属]]'''　'''''Dasymaschalon''''' (Hook. f. & Thomson) Dalla Torre & Harms
*31. '''[[假鹰爪属]]'''　'''''Desmos''''' Lour.
==77. 樟目　Laurales==
===229. [[蜡梅科]]　Calycanthaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[夏蜡梅属]]'''　'''''Calycanthus''''' L.
*2. '''[[蜡梅属]]''' {{Sm|(腊梅属)}}　'''''Chimonanthus''''' Lindl.
===230. [[莲叶桐科]]　Hernandiaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[旋翼果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gyrocarpus'''''|i}} Jacq.
*2. '''[[莲叶桐属]]'''　'''''Hernandia''''' L.
*3. '''[[青藤属]]'''　'''''Illigera''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三叶青藤属]]'''　'''''Coryzadenia''''' Griff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾青藤属]]'''　'''''Henschelia''''' C. Presl
===231. [[玉盘桂科]]　Monimiaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[岛盘桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tambourissa'''''|i}} Sonn.
*2. '''[[管榕桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetrasynandra'''''|i}} Perkins
===232. [[樟科]]　Lauraceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[厚壳桂属]]'''　'''''Cryptocarya''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红果厚壳桂属]]'''　'''''Caryodaphne''''' Blume ex Nees
*2. '''[[土楠属]]'''　'''''Endiandra''''' R. Br.
*3. '''[[油果樟属]]''' {{Sm|(孔药楠属)}}　'''''Sinopora''''' J. Li, N. H. Xia & H. W. Li
*4. '''[[琼楠属]]'''　'''''Beilschmiedia''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山潺属]]''' {{Sm|(梅乐樟属，梅樟属)}}　'''''Lauromerrillia''''' C. K. Allen
*5. '''[[无根藤属]]'''　'''''Cassytha''''' Osbeck
*6. '''[[新樟属]]'''　'''''Neocinnamomum''''' H. Liu
*7. '''[[檬果樟属]]'''　'''''Caryodaphnopsis''''' Airy Shaw
*8. '''[[润楠属]]'''　'''''Machilus''''' Rumph. ex Nees
*9. '''[[油丹属]]''' {{Sm|(肉托楠属)}}　'''''Alseodaphne''''' Nees
*10. '''[[莲桂属]]'''　'''''Dehaasia''''' Blume
*11. '''[[鳄梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Persea'''''|i}} Mill.
*12. '''[[楠属]]'''　'''''Phoebe''''' Nees
*13. '''[[北油丹属]]'''　'''''Alseodaphnopsis''''' H. W. Li & J. Li
*14. '''[[拟檫木属]]'''　'''''Parasassafras''''' D. G. Long
*15. '''[[华檫木属]]'''　'''''Sinosassafras''''' H. W. Li
*16. '''[[黄肉楠属]]'''　'''''Actinodaphne''''' Nees
*17. '''[[新木姜子属]]'''　'''''Neolitsea''''' (Benth.) Merr.
*18. '''[[月桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laurus'''''|i}} L.
*19. '''[[山胡椒属]]'''　'''''Lindera''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长梗山胡椒属]]'''　'''''Aperula''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美山胡椒属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calosmon'''''|i}} Bercht. ex J. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乌药属]]'''　'''''Daphnidium''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果山胡椒属]]'''　'''''Parabenzoin''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香叶树属]]'''　'''''Polyadenia''''' Nees
*20. '''[[香面叶属]]'''　'''''Iteadaphne''''' Blume
*21. '''[[单花木姜子属]]'''　'''''Dodecadenia''''' Nees
*22. '''[[木姜子属]]'''　'''''Litsea''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假柿木姜子属]]'''　'''''Heckeria''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞花木姜子属]]'''　'''''Hexanthus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[豺皮樟属]]'''　'''''Iozoste''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红皮木姜子属]]'''　'''''Pseudolitsea''''' Yen C. Yang
*23. '''[[檫木属]]'''　'''''Sassafras''''' J. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾檫木属]]'''　'''''Yushunia''''' Kamik.
*24. '''[[樟属]]'''　'''''Cinnamomum''''' Schaeff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄樟属]]'''　'''''Parthenoxylon''''' Blume
*25. '''[[加州桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Umbellularia'''''|i}} (Nees) Nutt.
==78. 金粟兰目　Chloranthales==
===233. [[金粟兰科]]　Chloranthaceae R. Br. ex Sims===
*1. '''[[雪香兰属]]'''　'''''Hedyosmum''''' Sw.
*2. '''[[草珊瑚属]]'''　'''''Sarcandra''''' Gardner
*3. '''[[金粟兰属]]'''　'''''Chloranthus''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鱼子兰属]]'''　'''''Peperidia''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝穗金粟兰属]]'''　'''''Saintlegeria''''' C. Cordem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银线草属]]''' {{Sm|(三裂蕊属)}}　'''''Tricercandra''''' A. Gray
==79. 菖蒲目　Acorales==
===234. [[菖蒲科]]　Acoraceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[菖蒲属]]'''　'''''Acorus''''' L.
==80. 泽泻目　Alismatales==
===235. [[天南星科]]　Araceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[水金杖属]]''' {{Sm|(奥昂蒂属，金棒芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Orontium'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[沼芋属]]''' {{Sm|(水芭蕉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lysichiton'''''|i}} Schott
*3. '''[[臭菘属]]'''　'''''Symplocarpus''''' Salisb. ex W. P. C. Barton
*4. '''[[紫萍属]]'''　'''''Spirodela''''' Schleid.
*5. '''[[少根萍属]]''' {{Sm|(斑萍属，兰氏萍属)}}　'''''Landoltia''''' Les & D. J. Crawford
*6. '''[[浮萍属]]'''　'''''Lemna''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[品藻属]]'''　'''''Staurogeton''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鼓凸浮萍属]]'''　'''''Telmatophace''''' Schleid.
*7. '''[[无根萍属]]''' {{Sm|(微萍属，芜萍属)}}　'''''Wolffia''''' Horkel ex Schleid.
*8. '''[[花烛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anthurium'''''|i}} Schott
*9. '''[[石柑属]]'''　'''''Pothos''''' L.
*10. '''[[假石柑属]]'''　'''''Pothoidium''''' Schott
*11. '''[[红苞芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhodospatha'''''|i}} Poepp.
*12. '''[[白鹤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spathiphyllum'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香鹤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amomophyllum'''''|i}} Engl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匙苞白鹤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hydnostachyon'''''|i}} Liebm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕉叶白鹤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Massowia'''''|i}} K. Koch
*13. '''[[上树南星属]]'''　'''''Anadendrum''''' Schott
*14. '''[[崖角藤属]]'''　'''''Rhaphidophora''''' Hassk.
*15. '''[[藤芋属]]'''　'''''Scindapsus''''' Schott
*16. '''[[龟背竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monstera'''''|i}} Adans.
*17. '''[[雷公连属]]'''　'''''Amydrium''''' Schott
*18. '''[[麒麟叶属]]'''　'''''Epipremnum''''' Schott
*19. '''[[刺芋属]]'''　'''''Lasia''''' Lour.
*20. '''[[棱刺芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lasimorpha'''''|i}} Schott
*21. '''[[曲籽芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtosperma'''''|i}} Griff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大泽芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arisacontis'''''|i}} Schott
*22. '''[[厚杯芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stylochaeton'''''|i}} Lepr.
*23. '''[[雪铁芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zamioculcas'''''|i}} Schott
*24. '''[[麟足芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gonatopus'''''|i}} Hook. f. ex Engl.
*25. '''[[丽白芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Callopsis'''''|i}} Engl.
*26. '''[[水榕芋属]]''' {{Sm|(水榕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anubias'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[燕尾芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amauriella'''''|i}} Rendle
*27. '''[[广东万年青属]]'''　'''''Aglaonema''''' Schott
*28. '''[[拂台芋属]]''' {{Sm|(尼芬芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nephthytis'''''|i}} Schott
*29. '''[[巨伞芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anchomanes'''''|i}} Schott
*30. '''[[鞭藤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cercestis'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网纹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhektophyllum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*31. '''[[香藤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Culcasia'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*32. '''[[水石芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Furtadoa'''''|i}} M. Hotta
*33. '''[[千年健属]]'''　'''''Homalomena''''' Schott
*34. '''[[刺团芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adelonema'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[春雪芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Curmeria'''''|i}} André
*35. '''[[鹅掌芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thaumatophyllum'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽裂鹅掌芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sphincterostigma'''''|i}} Schott
*36. '''[[喜林芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Philodendron'''''|i}} Schott
*37. '''[[马蹄莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zantedeschia'''''|i}} Spreng.
*38. '''[[黛粉芋属]]''' {{Sm|(粉黛叶属，花叶万年青属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dieffenbachia'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩叶黛粉芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seguinum'''''|i}} Raf.
*39. '''[[青荚芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spathicarpa'''''|i}} Hook.
*40. '''[[瓶苞芋属]]''' {{Sm|(椒榕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lagenandra'''''|i}} Dalzell
*41. '''[[隐棒花属]]''' {{Sm|(水椒草属)}}　'''''Cryptocoryne''''' Fisch. ex Wydler
*42. '''[[藏蕊落檐属]]''' {{Sm|(柳叶榕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aridarum'''''|i}} Ridl.
*43. '''[[展苞落檐属]]''' {{Sm|(辣椒榕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bucephalandra'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小落檐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Microcasia'''''|i}} Becc.
*44. '''[[落檐属]]'''　'''''Schismatoglottis''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
*45. '''[[水芋属]]'''　'''''Calla''''' L.
*46. '''[[魔芋属]]''' {{Sm|(磨芋属，蘑芋属)}}　'''''Amorphophallus''''' Blume ex Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野魔芋属]]'''　'''''Brachyspatha''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珠芽魔芋属]]'''　'''''Conophallus''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[缢苞魔芋属]]'''　'''''Hydrosme''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尼泊尔魔芋属]]'''　'''''Thomsonia''''' Wall.
*47. '''[[细柄芋属]]'''　'''''Hapaline''''' Schott
*48. '''[[五彩芋属]]''' {{Sm|(花叶芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Caladium'''''|v}} Vent.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳脉千年芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phyllotaenium'''''|i}} André
*49. '''[[合果芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Syngonium'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木藤芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Porphyrospatha'''''|i}} Engl.
*50. '''[[千年芋属]]''' {{Sm|(黄肉芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xanthosoma'''''|v}} Schott
*51. '''[[弯棒芋属]]''' {{Sm|(盔苞芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arisarum'''''|i}} Mill.
*52. '''[[箭南星属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Peltandra'''''|i}} Raf.
*53. '''[[暴风芋属]]''' {{Sm|(水芭蕉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Typhonodorum'''''|i}} Schott
*54. '''[[大薸属]]'''　'''''Pistia''''' L.
*55. '''[[紫苞海芋属]]'''　'''''Englerarum''''' Nauheimer & P. C. Boyce
*56. '''[[大野芋属]]'''　'''''Leucocasia''''' Schott
*57. '''[[海芋属]]'''　'''''Alocasia''''' (Schott) G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[热亚海芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ensolenanthe'''''|i}} Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖尾芋属]]''' {{Sm|(繁株芋属)}}　'''''Panzhuyuia''''' Z. Y. Zhu
*58. '''[[芋属]]'''　'''''Colocasia''''' Schott
*59. '''[[岩芋属]]'''　'''''Remusatia''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[曲苞芋属]]'''　'''''Gonatanthus''''' Klotzsch
*60. '''[[泉七属]]'''　'''''Steudnera''''' K. Koch
*61. '''[[天南星属]]'''　'''''Arisaema''''' Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄苞南星属]]'''　'''''Dochafa''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞭序南星属]]'''　'''''Flagellarisaema''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[普陀南星属]]'''　'''''Ringentiarum''''' Nakai
*62. '''[[半夏属]]'''　'''''Pinellia''''' Ten.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三裂叶半夏属]]'''　'''''Atherurus''''' Blume
*63. '''[[犁头尖属]]'''　'''''Typhonium''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞭檐犁头尖属]]'''　'''''Heterostalis''''' Schott
*64. '''[[斑龙芋属]]'''　'''''Sauromatum''''' Schott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高原犁头尖属]]'''　'''''Diversiarum''''' J. Murata & Ohi-Toma
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛犁头尖属]]'''　'''''Hirsutiarum''''' J. Murata & Ohi-Toma
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸟足犁头尖属]]'''　'''''Pedatyphonium''''' J. Murata & Ohi-Toma
*65. '''[[白星芋属]]''' {{Sm|(白星海芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Helicodiceros'''''|i}} Schott
*66. '''[[破土芋属]]''' {{Sm|(袖珍南星属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Biarum'''''|i}} Schott
*67. '''[[龙芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dracunculus'''''|i}} Mill.
*68. '''[[疆南星属]]'''　'''''Arum''''' L.
===236. [[岩菖蒲科]]　Tofieldiaceae Takht.===
*1. '''[[岩菖蒲属]]'''　'''''Tofieldia''''' Huds.
===237. [[泽泻科]]　Alismataceae Vent.===
*1. '''[[假泽泻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Baldellia'''''|i}} Parl.
*2. '''[[泽泻属]]'''　'''''Alisma''''' L.
*3. '''[[黄花蔺属]]''' {{Sm|(沼泽草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Limnocharis'''''|v}} Bonpl.
*4. '''[[拟花蔺属]]''' {{Sm|(假花蔺属)}}　'''''Butomopsis''''' Kunth
*5. '''[[水金英属]]''' {{Sm|(水罂粟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hydrocleys'''''|i}} Rich.
*6. '''[[毛茛泽泻属]]'''　'''''Ranalisma''''' Stapf
*7. '''[[链剑草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Helanthium'''''|i}} (Benth. & Hook. f.) Engelm. ex J. G. Sm.
*8. '''[[泽苔草属]]'''　'''''Caldesia''''' Parl.
*9. '''[[肋果慈姑属]]''' {{Sm|(刺果慈姑属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Echinodorus'''''|i}} Rich.
*10. '''[[象耳慈姑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aquarius'''''|i}} Christenh. & Byng
*11. '''[[慈姑属]]'''　'''''Sagittaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[禾叶慈姑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diphorea'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛舌慈姑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Drepachenia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮慈姑属]]'''　'''''Hydrolirion''''' H. Lév.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冠果草属]]'''　'''''Lophotocarpus''''' T. Durand
===238. [[花蔺科]]　Butomaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[花蔺属]]'''　'''''Butomus''''' L.
===239. [[水鳖科]]　Hydrocharitaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[水凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(水剑叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stratiotes'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[卷蕴藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagarosiphon'''''|i}} Harv.
*3. '''[[水筛属]]'''　'''''Blyxa''''' Noronha ex Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无尾水筛属]]'''　'''''Diplosiphon''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[有尾水筛属]]'''　'''''Hydrotrophus''''' C. B. Clarke
*4. '''[[水车前属]]'''　'''''Ottelia''''' Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水菜花属]]'''　'''''Boottia''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙舌草属]]'''　'''''Hymenotheca''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贵州水车前属]]'''　'''''Oligolobos''''' Gagnep.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海菜花属]]'''　'''''Xystrolobos''''' Gagnep.
*5. '''[[水蕴草属]]''' {{Sm|(埃格草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Egeria'''''|v}} Planch.
*6. '''[[水蕴藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elodea'''''|i}} Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶水蕴藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacharis'''''|i}} Rich.
*7. '''[[水蛛花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Limnobium'''''|i}} Rich.
*8. '''[[水鳖属]]'''　'''''Hydrocharis''''' L.
*9. '''[[喜盐草属]]'''　'''''Halophila''''' Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小喜盐草属]]'''　'''''Lemnopsis''''' Zipp. ex Zoll.
*10. '''[[海菖蒲属]]'''　'''''Enhalus''''' Rich.
*11. '''[[泰来藻属]]'''　'''''Thalassia''''' Banks ex K. D. Koenig
*12. '''[[茨藻属]]'''　'''''Najas''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小茨藻属]]'''　'''''Caulinia''''' Willd.
*13. '''[[黑藻属]]'''　'''''Hydrilla''''' Rich.
*14. '''[[虾子菜属]]''' {{Sm|(虾子草属，软骨草属)}}　'''''Nechamandra''''' Planch.
*15. '''[[苦草属]]'''　'''''Vallisneria''''' L.
===240. [[冰沼草科]]　Scheuchzeriaceae F. Rudolphi===
*1. '''[[冰沼草属]]'''　'''''Scheuchzeria''''' L.
===241. [[水蕹科]]　Aponogetonaceae Planch.===
*1. '''[[水蕹属]]'''　'''''Aponogeton''''' L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网眼草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ouvirandra'''''|i}} Thouars
===242. [[水麦冬科]]　Juncaginaceae Rich.===
*1. '''[[水麦冬属]]'''　'''''Triglochin''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海韭菜属]]'''　'''''Hexaglochin''''' Nieuwl.
===243. [[大叶藻科]]　Zosteraceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[虾海藻属]]'''　'''''Phyllospadix''''' Hook.
*2. '''[[大叶藻属]]'''　'''''Zostera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮大叶藻属]]'''　'''''Nanozostera''''' Toml. & Posl.
===244. [[眼子菜科]]　Potamogetonaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[篦齿眼子菜属]]''' {{Sm|(蓖齿眼子菜属)}}　'''''Stuckenia''''' B&ouml;rner
*2. '''[[眼子菜属]]'''　'''''Potamogeton''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三脊眼子菜属]]'''　'''''Hydrogeton''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穿叶眼子菜属]]'''　'''''Peltopsis''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[角果藻属]]'''　'''''Zannichellia''''' L.
===245. [[川蔓藻科]]　Ruppiaceae Horan.===
*1. '''[[川蔓藻属]]'''　'''''Ruppia''''' L.
===246. [[丝粉藻科]]　Cymodoceaceae Vines===
*1. '''[[二药藻属]]'''　'''''Halodule''''' Endl.
*2. '''[[丝粉藻属]]'''　'''''Cymodocea''''' K. D. Koenig
*3. '''[[齿叶丝粉藻属]]'''　'''''Oceana''''' Byng & Christenh.
*4. '''[[针叶藻属]]'''　'''''Syringodium''''' Kütz.
*5. '''[[木秆藻属]]''' {{Sm|(全楔草属)}}　'''''Thalassodendron''''' Hartog
==81. 无叶莲目　Petrosaviales==
===247. [[无叶莲科]]　Petrosaviaceae Hutch.===
*1. '''[[无叶莲属]]''' {{Sm|(樱井草属)}}　'''''Petrosavia''''' Becc.
==82. 薯蓣目　Dioscoreales==
===248. [[沼金花科]]　Nartheciaceae Fr. ex Bjurzon===
*1. '''[[肺筋草属]]''' {{Sm|(粉条儿菜属)}}　'''''Aletris''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[少花肺筋草属]]'''　'''''Stachyopogon''''' Klotzsch
*2. '''[[沼金花属]]''' {{Sm|(纳茜菜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Narthecium'''''|i}} Huds.
===249. [[水玉簪科]]　Burmanniaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[水玉杯属]]'''　'''''Thismia''''' Griff.
*2. '''[[腐草属]]'''　'''''Gymnosiphon''''' Blume
*3. '''[[水玉簪属]]'''　'''''Burmannia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三品一枝花属]]'''　'''''Nephrocoelium''''' Turcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亮玉簪属]]'''　'''''Gonianthes''''' Blume
===250. [[薯蓣科]]　Dioscoreaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[蒟蒻薯属]]'''　'''''Tacca''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝须蒟蒻薯属]]'''　'''''Ataccia''''' J. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂果薯属]]'''　'''''Schizocapsa''''' Hance
*2. '''[[薯蓣属]]'''　'''''Dioscorea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五叶薯蓣属]]'''　'''''Botryosicyos''''' Hochst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白参薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elephantodon'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[甜薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oncus'''''|i}} Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[参薯属]]'''　'''''Polynome''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薯莨属]]'''　'''''Strophis''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[浆果薯蓣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tamus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龟甲龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Testudinaria'''''|i}} Salisb.
==83. 露兜树目　Pandanales==
===251. [[霉草科]]　Triuridaceae Gardner===
*1. '''[[霉草属]]''' {{Sm|(喜荫草属)}}　'''''Sciaphila''''' Blume
===252. [[翡若翠科]]　Velloziaceae J. Agardh===
*1. '''[[芒苞草属]]'''　'''''Acanthochlamys''''' P. C. Kao
*2. '''[[黑炭木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xerophyta'''''|i}} Juss.
===253. [[百部科]]　Stemonaceae Caruel===
*1. '''[[羽脉百部属]]'''　'''''Stichoneuron''''' Hook. f.
*2. '''[[金刚大属]]''' {{Sm|(黄精叶钩吻属)}}　'''''Croomia''''' Torr.
*3. '''[[百部属]]'''　'''''Stemona''''' Lour.
===254. [[环花草科]]　Cyclanthaceae Poit. ex A. Rich.===
*1. '''[[环花草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclanthus'''''|i}} Poit. ex A. Rich.
*2. '''[[巴拿马草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carludovica'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
===255. [[露兜树科]]　Pandanaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[藤露兜树属]]'''　'''''Freycinetia''''' Gaudich.
*2. '''[[露兜树属]]'''　'''''Pandanus''''' Parkinson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扇叶露兜属]]'''　'''''Marquartia''''' Hassk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[分叉露兜属]]'''　'''''Rykia''''' de Vriese
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞蕊露兜属]]'''　'''''Vinsonia''''' Gaudich.
==84. 百合目　Liliales==
===256. [[白玉簪科]]　Corsiaceae Becc.===
*1. '''[[白玉簪属]]'''　'''''Corsiopsis''''' D. X. Zhang, R. M. K. Saunders & C. M. Hu
===257. [[藜芦科]]　Melanthiaceae Batsch ex Borkh.===
*1. '''[[棋盘花属]]'''　'''''Anticlea''''' Kunth
*2. '''[[藜芦属]]'''　'''''Veratrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爪藜芦属]]''' {{Sm|(黑药花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Melanthium'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[白丝草属]]'''　'''''Chionographis''''' Maxim.
*4. '''[[丫蕊花属]]'''　'''''Ypsilandra''''' Franch.
*5. '''[[胡麻花属]]'''　'''''Heloniopsis''''' A. Gray
*6. '''[[熊尾草属]]''' {{Sm|(旱叶草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xerophyllum'''''|i}} Michx.
*7. '''[[延龄草属]]'''　'''''Trillium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西藏延龄草属]]'''　'''''Trillidium''''' Kunth
*8. '''[[北重楼属]]'''　'''''Paris''''' L.
*9. '''[[重楼属]]''' {{Sm|(蚤休属)}}　'''''Daiswa''''' Raf.
===258. [[六出花科]]　Alstroemeriaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[宝珠木属]]''' {{Sm|(萎瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Luzuriaga'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*2. '''[[竹叶吊钟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bomarea'''''|i}} Mirb.
*3. '''[[六出花属]]''' {{Sm|(彩花扭柄属，扭柄叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Alstroemeria'''''|i}} L.
===259. [[秋水仙科]]　Colchicaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[万寿竹属]]'''　'''''Disporum''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花万寿竹属]]'''　'''''Drapiezia''''' Blume
*2. '''[[山慈姑属]]''' {{Sm|(山慈菇属)}}　'''''Iphigenia''''' Kunth
*3. '''[[獐牙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wurmbea'''''|i}} Thunb.
*4. '''[[嘉兰属]]'''　'''''Gloriosa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄嘉兰属]]''' {{Sm|(攀百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Littonia'''''|i}} Hook.
*5. '''[[提灯花属]]''' {{Sm|(宫灯百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sandersonia'''''|i}} Hook.
*6. '''[[秋水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Colchicum'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[睡衣花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Androcymbium'''''|i}} Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[春水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bulbocodium'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[摇船花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plexinium'''''|i}} Raf.
===260. [[金钟木科]]　Philesiaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[智利钟花属]]''' {{Sm|(智利花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lapageria'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*2. '''[[金钟木属]]''' {{Sm|(喜爱花属，垂花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Philesia'''''|i}} Comm. ex Juss.
===261. [[菝葜科]]　Smilacaceae Vent.===
*1. '''[[菝葜属]]'''　'''''Smilax''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肖菝葜属]]'''　'''''Heterosmilax''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合丝肖菝葜属]]'''　'''''Oligosmilax''''' Seem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾肖菝葜属]]'''　'''''Pseudosmilax''''' Hayata
===262. [[百合科]]　Liliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[仙灯属]]''' {{Sm|(蝴蝶百合属，丽草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Calochortus'''''|i}} Pursh
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄仙灯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclobothra'''''|i}} Sweet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝶百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mariposa'''''|i}} (Alph. Wood) Hoover
*2. '''[[油点草属]]'''　'''''Tricyrtis''''' Wall.
*3. '''[[扭柄花属]]'''　'''''Streptopus''''' Michx.
*4. '''[[七筋姑属]]''' {{Sm|(七筋菇属)}}　'''''Clintonia''''' Raf.
*5. '''[[顶冰花属]]'''　'''''Gagea''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[洼瓣花属]]'''　'''''Lloydia''''' Salisb. ex Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[少花顶冰花属]]'''　'''''Plecostigma''''' Turcz.
*6. '''[[郁金香属]]'''　'''''Tulipa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异叶郁金香属]]'''　'''''Eduardoregelia''''' Popov
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柔毛郁金香属]]'''　'''''Liriopogon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单花郁金香属]]'''　'''''Orithyia''''' D. Don
*7. '''[[老鸦瓣属]]'''　'''''Amana''''' Honda
*8. '''[[猪牙花属]]'''　'''''Erythronium''''' L.
*9. '''[[假百合属]]''' {{Sm|(太白米属)}}　'''''Notholirion''''' Wall. ex Boiss.
*10. '''[[大百合属]]'''　'''''Cardiocrinum''''' (Endl.) Lindl.
*11. '''[[贝母属]]'''　'''''Fritillaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金铃贝母属]]'''　'''''Amblirion''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川贝母属]]'''　'''''Baimo''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花贝母属]]'''　'''''Corona''''' Fisch. ex Graham
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[米贝母属]]'''　'''''Liliorhiza''''' Kellogg
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[皇冠贝母属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petilium'''''|i}} Ludw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊瓣贝母属]]'''　'''''Rhinopetalum''''' Fisch. ex J. E. Alexander
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[波斯贝母属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Theresia'''''|i}} K. Koch
*12. '''[[百合属]]'''　'''''Lilium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲百合属]]'''　'''''Martagon''''' Wolf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[豹子花属]]'''　'''''Nomocharis''''' Franch.
==85. 天门冬目　Asparagales==
===263. [[兰科]]　Orchidaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[三蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Neuwiedia''''' Blume
*2. '''[[拟兰属]]'''　'''''Apostasia''''' Blume
*3. '''[[朱兰属]]'''　'''''Pogonia''''' Juss.
*4. '''[[盂兰属]]''' {{Sm|(皿柱兰属)}}　'''''Lecanorchis''''' Blume
*5. '''[[香荚兰属]]''' {{Sm|(香果兰属，香子兰属)}}　'''''Vanilla''''' Plum. ex Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾香荚兰属]]'''　'''''Miguelia''''' Aver.
*6. '''[[肉果兰属]]'''　'''''Cyrtosia''''' Blume
*7. '''[[山珊瑚属]]'''　'''''Galeola''''' Lour.
*8. '''[[倒吊兰属]]'''　'''''Erythrorchis''''' Blume
*9. '''[[杓兰属]]'''　'''''Cypripedium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊角杓兰属]]'''　'''''Criosanthes''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花杓兰属]]'''　'''''Sacodon''''' Raf.
*10. '''[[璧月兰属]]''' {{Sm|(南美杓兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Selenipedium'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*11. '''[[兜兰属]]'''　'''''Paphiopedilum''''' Pfitzer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫纹兜兰属]]'''　'''''Menephora''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秀丽兜兰属]]'''　'''''Stimegas''''' Raf.
*12. '''[[弯瓣兜兰属]]''' {{Sm|(墨国兜兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mexipedium'''''|i}} V. A. Albert & M. W. Chase
*13. '''[[美洲兜兰属]]''' {{Sm|(长翼兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phragmipedium'''''|i}} Rolfe
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无兜兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Uropedium'''''|i}} Lindl.
*14. '''[[双袋兰属]]'''　'''''Disperis''''' Sw.
*15. '''[[萼距兰属]]''' {{Sm|(双距兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Disa'''''|i}} P. J. Bergius
*16. '''[[鸟足兰属]]'''　'''''Satyrium''''' Sw.
*17. '''[[狗兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cynorkis'''''|i}} Thouars
*18. '''[[怒江兰属]]'''　'''''Gennaria''''' Parl.
*19. '''[[玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Habenaria''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肾叶玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Aopla''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坡参属]]'''　'''''Centrochilus''''' Schauer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[十字兰属]]'''　'''''Fimbrorchis''''' Szlach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐口缰兰属]]'''　'''''Kryptostoma''''' Geerinck
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝裂玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Medusorchis''''' Szlach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多裂玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Ochyrorchis''''' Szlach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南方玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Odisha''''' S. Misra
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉叶玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Senghasiella''''' Szlach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[橙黄玉凤花属]]'''　'''''Smithanthe''''' Szlach. & Marg.
*20. '''[[合柱兰属]]'''　'''''Diplomeris''''' D. Don
*21. '''[[阔蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Peristylus''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[撕唇阔蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Choeradoplectron''''' Schauer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[触须兰属]]'''　'''''Glossula''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭穗阔蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Lindblomia''''' Fr.
*22. '''[[白蝶兰属]]'''　'''''Pecteilis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹭兰属]]'''　'''''Hemihabenaria''''' Finet
*23. '''[[先骕兰属]]'''　'''''Hsenhsua''''' X. H. Jin, Schuit. & W. T. Jin
*24. '''[[角盘兰属]]'''　'''''Herminium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兜蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Androcorys''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山兰属]]'''　'''''Bhutanthera''''' Renz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冷兰属]]'''　'''''Frigidorchis''''' Z. J. Liu & S. C. Chen
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[孔唇兰属]]'''　'''''Porolabium''''' Tang & F. T. Wang
*25. '''[[苞叶兰属]]'''　'''''Brachycorythis''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短距苞叶兰属]]'''　'''''Phyllomphax''''' Schltr.
*26. '''[[毛轴兰属]]'''　'''''Sirindhornia''''' H. A. Pedersen & Suksathan
*27. '''[[时珍兰属]]'''　'''''Shizhenia''''' X. H. Jin, Lu Q. Huang, W. T. Jin & X. G. Xiang
*28. '''[[小红门兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小蝶兰属)}}　'''''Ponerorchis''''' Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无柱兰属]]'''　'''''Amitostigma''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[广布红门兰属]]'''　'''''Chusua''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兜被兰属]]'''　'''''Neottianthe''''' (Rchb.) Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花兜被兰属]]'''　'''''Symphyosepalum''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*29. '''[[长喙兰属]]'''　'''''Tsaiorchis''''' Tang & F. T. Wang
*30. '''[[舌喙兰属]]'''　'''''Hemipilia''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫斑兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟舌喙兰属)}}　'''''Hemipiliopsis''''' Y. B. Luo & S. C. Chen
*31. '''[[红门兰属]]'''　'''''Orchis''''' L.
*32. '''[[蜂兰属]]''' {{Sm|(眉兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ophrys'''''|i}} L.
*33. '''[[长药兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Serapias'''''|i}} L.
*34. '''[[手参属]]'''　'''''Gymnadenia''''' R. Br.
*35. '''[[掌裂兰属]]''' {{Sm|(掌根兰属)}}　'''''Dactylorhiza''''' Neck. ex Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凹舌兰属]]'''　'''''Coeloglossum''''' Hartm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫点掌裂兰属]]'''　'''''Dactylorchis''''' (Klinge) Verm.
*36. '''[[盔花兰属]]''' {{Sm|(根茎兰属)}}　'''''Galearis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无距兰属]]'''　'''''Aceratorchis''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二叶盔花兰属]]'''　'''''Aorchis''''' Verm.
*37. '''[[舌唇兰属]]'''　'''''Platanthera''''' Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖药兰属]]'''　'''''Diphylax''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冰翠兰属]]'''　'''''Limnorchis''''' Rydb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭距舌唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mecosa'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高岭蜻蜓兰属]]'''　'''''Pseudodiphryllum''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[反唇兰属]]'''　'''''Smithorchis''''' Tang & F. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜻蜓兰属]]'''　'''''Tulotis''''' Raf.
*38. '''[[针花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acianthus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*39. '''[[指柱兰属]]'''　'''''Stigmatodactylus''''' Maxim. ex Makino
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞叶指柱兰属]]'''　'''''Pantlingia''''' Prain
*40. '''[[铠兰属]]'''　'''''Corybas''''' Salisb.
*41. '''[[葱叶兰属]]'''　'''''Microtis''''' R. Br.
*42. '''[[隐柱兰属]]'''　'''''Cryptostylis''''' R. Br.
*43. '''[[斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Goodyera''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Georchis''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[十一月斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Salacistis''''' Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Tussaca''''' Raf.
*44. '''[[高斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Cionisaccus''''' Breda
*45. '''[[烟色斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Allochilus''''' Gagnep.
*46. '''[[袋唇兰属]]'''　'''''Hylophila''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双臂兰属]]'''　'''''Dicerostylis''''' Blume
*47. '''[[钳唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(钳喙兰属)}}　'''''Erythrodes''''' Blume
*48. '''[[绿花斑叶兰属]]'''　'''''Eucosia''''' Blume
*49. '''[[翻唇兰属]]'''　'''''Hetaeria''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇南翻唇兰属]]'''　'''''Cerochilus''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长序翻唇兰属]]'''　'''''Rhamphidia''''' (Lindl.) Lindl.
*50. '''[[叉柱兰属]]'''　'''''Cheirostylis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阿里山兰属]]'''　'''''Arisanorchis''''' Hayata
*51. '''[[早田兰属]]'''　'''''Hayata''''' Aver.
*52. '''[[线柱兰属]]'''　'''''Zeuxine''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芳线柱兰属]]'''　'''''Haplochilus''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香线柱兰属]]'''　'''''Heterozeuxine''''' T. Hashim.
*53. '''[[爬兰属]]'''　'''''Herpysma''''' Lindl.
*54. '''[[鳔唇兰属]]'''　'''''Cystorchis''''' Blume
*55. '''[[菱兰属]]'''　'''''Rhomboda''''' Lindl.
*56. '''[[金线兰属]]''' {{Sm|(开唇兰属)}}　'''''Anoectochilus''''' Blume
*57. '''[[二尾兰属]]'''　'''''Vrydagzynea''''' Blume
*58. '''[[笼纹兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macodes'''''|i}} (Blume) Lindl.
*59. '''[[血叶兰属]]'''　'''''Ludisia''''' A. Rich.
*60. '''[[叠鞘兰属]]'''　'''''Chamaegastrodia''''' Makino & F. Maek.
*61. '''[[全唇兰属]]'''　'''''Myrmechis''''' (Lindl.) Blume
*62. '''[[旗唇兰属]]'''　'''''Kuhlhasseltia''''' J. J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白云兰属]]'''　'''''Vexillabium''''' Maek.
*63. '''[[齿唇兰属]]'''　'''''Odontochilus''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锯唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(双丸兰属)}}　'''''Pristiglottis''''' Cretz. & J. J. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[齿爪兰属]]'''　'''''Evrardianthe''''' (Gagnep.) Rauschert
*64. '''[[拟线柱兰属]]'''　'''''Zeuxinella''''' Aver.
*65. '''[[环须兰属]]''' {{Sm|(环毛兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyclopogon'''''|i}} C. Presl
*66. '''[[肥根兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pelexia'''''|v}} Poit. ex Lindl.
*67. '''[[狭喙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stenorrhynchos'''''|i}} Rich. ex Spreng.
*68. '''[[锚花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Buchtienia'''''|i}} Schltr.
*69. '''[[绶草属]]'''　'''''Spiranthes''''' Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚太绶草属]]'''　'''''Monustes''''' Raf.
*70. '''[[头蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Cephalanthera''''' Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金佛山兰属]]'''　'''''Tangtsinia''''' S. C. Chen
*71. '''[[鸟巢兰属]]'''　'''''Neottia''''' Guett.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双蕊兰属]]'''　'''''Diplandrorchis''''' S. C. Chen
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无喙兰属]]'''　'''''Holopogon''''' Kom. & Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对叶兰属]]'''　'''''Listera''''' R. Br.
*72. '''[[火烧兰属]]'''　'''''Epipactis''''' Zinn
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆火烧兰属]]'''　'''''Arthrochilium''''' Beck
*73. '''[[丛宝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Limodorum'''''|i}} Boehm.
*74. '''[[无叶兰属]]'''　'''''Aphyllorchis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单唇无叶兰属]]'''　'''''Sinorchis''''' S. C. Chen
*75. '''[[箬叶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sobralia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*76. '''[[苏裙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brasolia'''''|i}} (Rchb. f.) Baranow, Dudek & Szlach.
*77. '''[[峨塔兰属]]''' {{Sm|(厄勒兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Elleanthus'''''|i}} C. Presl
*78. '''[[管花兰属]]'''　'''''Corymborkis''''' Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草枝兰属]]'''　'''''Chloidia''''' Lindl.
*79. '''[[竹茎兰属]]''' {{Sm|(摺唇兰属)}}　'''''Tropidia''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔叶竹茎兰属]]'''　'''''Cnemidia''''' Lindl.
*80. '''[[芋兰属]]'''　'''''Nervilia''''' Comm. ex Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白脉芋兰属]]'''　'''''Bolborchis''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
*81. '''[[虎舌兰属]]'''　'''''Epipogium''''' J. F. Gmel. ex Borkh.
*82. '''[[肉药兰属]]'''　'''''Stereosandra''''' Blume
*83. '''[[锚柱兰属]]'''　'''''Didymoplexiella''''' Garay
*84. '''[[拟锚柱兰属]]'''　'''''Didymoplexiopsis''''' Seidenf.
*85. '''[[双唇兰属]]'''　'''''Didymoplexis''''' Griff.
*86. '''[[天麻属]]'''　'''''Gastrodia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南天麻属]]'''　'''''Epiphanes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细天麻属]]'''　'''''Leptogastrodia''''' M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
*87. '''[[泰兰属]]'''　'''''Thaia''''' Seidenf.
*88. '''[[竹叶兰属]]'''　'''''Arundina''''' Blume
*89. '''[[筒瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Anthogonium''''' Wall. ex Lindl.
*90. '''[[拟笋兰属]]'''　'''''Thuniopsis''''' L. Li, D. P. Ye & Shi J. Li
*91. '''[[白及属]]'''　'''''Bletilla''''' Rchb. f.
*92. '''[[笋兰属]]'''　'''''Thunia''''' Rchb. f.
*93. '''[[独蒜兰属]]'''　'''''Pleione''''' D. Don
*94. '''[[曲唇兰属]]'''　'''''Panisea''''' (Lindl.) Lindl.
*95. '''[[穹柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chelonistele'''''|i}} Pfitzer
*96. '''[[足柱兰属]]'''　'''''Dendrochilum''''' Blume
*97. '''[[蜂腰兰属]]'''　'''''Bulleyia''''' Schltr.
*98. '''[[贝母兰属]]'''　'''''Coelogyne''''' Lindl.
*99. '''[[新型兰属]]'''　'''''Neogyna''''' Rchb. f.
*100. '''[[耳唇兰属]]'''　'''''Otochilus''''' Lindl.
*101. '''[[石仙桃属]]'''　'''''Pholidota''''' Lindl. ex Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗脉石仙桃属]]'''　'''''Ptilocnema''''' D. Don
*102. '''[[瘦房兰属]]'''　'''''Ischnogyne''''' Schltr.
*103. '''[[石豆兰属]]'''　'''''Bulbophyllum''''' Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[顶裂兰属]]'''　'''''Acrochaene''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异瓣石豆兰属]]'''　'''''Anisopetalon''''' Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞花卷瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Bolbophyllopsis''''' Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卷瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Cirrhopetalum''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[栖林兰属]]'''　'''''Drymoda''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[齿豆兰属]]'''　'''''Hamularia''''' Aver. & Averyanova
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[堇兰属]]'''　'''''Ione''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Monomeria''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[角萼卷瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Rhytionanthos''''' Garay, Hamer & Siegerist
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单花石豆兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sestochilos'''''|i}} Breda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大苞兰属]]'''　'''''Sunipia''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三角兰属]]'''　'''''Trias''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双叶卷瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Tripudianthes''''' (Seidenf.) Szlach. & Kras
*104. '''[[厚唇兰属]]'''　'''''Epigeneium''''' Gagnep.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽叶厚唇兰属]]'''　'''''Katherinea''''' A. D. Hawkes
*105. '''[[石斛属]]'''　'''''Dendrobium''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草叶石斛属]]'''　'''''Aclinia''''' Griff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剑叶石斛属]]'''　'''''Aporum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芒石斛属]]''' {{Sm|(卡德兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cadetia'''''|i}} Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木石斛属]]'''　'''''Ceraia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羚石斛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceratobium'''''|i}} M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[流星石斛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diplocaulobium'''''|i}} (Rchb. f.) Kraenzl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶石斛属]]'''　'''''Distichorchis''''' M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铅笔兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dockrillia'''''|i}} Brieger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花石斛属]]'''　'''''Endeisa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扁石斛属]]'''　'''''Eurycaulis''''' M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金石斛属]]'''　'''''Flickingeria''''' A. D. Hawkes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长距石斛属]]'''　'''''Froscula''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双花石斛属]]'''　'''''Grastidium''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝塔兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Inobulbon'''''|i}} Kraenzl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[独杯石斛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monanthos'''''|i}} (Schltr.) Brieger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[链石斛属]]'''　'''''Ormostema''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[距囊石斛属]]'''　'''''Pedilonum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[曲轴石斛属]]'''　'''''Stachyobium''''' Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盖药石斛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thelychiton'''''|i}} Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[勺唇石斛属]]'''　'''''Thicuania''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝴蝶石斛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vappodes'''''|i}} M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
*106. '''[[宽柱兰属]]'''　'''''Platystyliparis''''' Marg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丫瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Ypsilorchis''''' Z. J. Liu, S. C. Chen & L. J. Chen
*107. '''[[扁莛兰属]]'''　'''''Cestichis''''' Thouars ex Pfitzer
*108. '''[[覆苞兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stichorkis'''''|i}} Thouars
*109. '''[[鸢尾兰属]]'''　'''''Oberonia''''' Lindl.
*110. '''[[螳首兰属]]'''　'''''Empusa''''' Lindl.
*111. '''[[见血青属]]'''　'''''Diteilis''''' Raf.
*112. '''[[无耳沼兰属]]'''　'''''Dienia''''' Lindl.
*113. '''[[沼兰属]]'''　'''''Crepidium''''' Blume
*114. '''[[小沼兰属]]'''　'''''Oberonioides''''' Szlach.
*115. '''[[羊耳蒜属]]'''　'''''Liparis''''' Rich.
*116. '''[[原沼兰属]]'''　'''''Malaxis''''' Sol. ex Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小柱兰属]]'''　'''''Microstylis''''' (Nutt.) Eaton
*117. '''[[兰属]]'''　'''''Cymbidium''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[莎草兰属]]'''　'''''Cyperorchis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[建兰属]]'''　'''''Jensoa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞花兰属]]'''　'''''Liuguishania''''' Z. J. Liu & J. N. Zhang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大根兰属]]'''　'''''Pachyrhizanthe''''' (Schltr.) Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锥花兰属]]'''　'''''Wutongshania''''' Z. J. Liu & J. N. Zhang
*118. '''[[斑被兰属]]''' {{Sm|(巨兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Grammatophyllum'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花斑被兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gabertia'''''|i}} Gaudich.
*119. '''[[合萼兰属]]'''　'''''Acriopsis''''' Blume
*120. '''[[盒足兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thecopus'''''|i}} Seidenf.
*121. '''[[弯足兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtopodium'''''|i}} R. Br.
*122. '''[[金蒜兰属]]''' {{Sm|(格罗兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Grobya'''''|i}} Lindl.
*123. '''[[盔蕊兰属]]''' {{Sm|(鼬蕊兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Galeandra'''''|i}} Lindl.
*124. '''[[妖精兰属]]''' {{Sm|(克劳兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Clowesia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*125. '''[[瓢唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(飘唇兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Catasetum'''''|i}} Rich. ex Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙须兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monachanthus'''''|i}} Lindl.
*126. '''[[玉兔兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dressleria'''''|i}} Dodson
*127. '''[[天鹅兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cycnoches'''''|i}} Lindl.
*128. '''[[旋柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mormodes'''''|i}} Lindl.
*129. '''[[豹斑兰属]]''' {{Sm|(安舌兰属，豹兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ansellia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*130. '''[[画兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Graphorkis'''''|i}} Thouars
*131. '''[[铜斑兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Grammangis'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*132. '''[[艳唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟蕙兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cymbidiella'''''|i}} Rolfe
*133. '''[[僧兰属]]''' {{Sm|(节茎兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oeceoclades'''''|i}} Lindl.
*134. '''[[地宝兰属]]'''　'''''Geodorum''''' Jacks.
*135. '''[[美冠兰属]]'''　'''''Eulophia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫花美冠兰属]]'''　'''''Cyrtopera''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽冠兰属]]'''　'''''Lissochilus''''' R. Br.
*136. '''[[拟蝶唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Psychopsis'''''|i}} Raf.
*137. '''[[毛帽兰属]]''' {{Sm|(毛床兰属，毛足兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Trichopilia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*138. '''[[金虎兰属]]''' {{Sm|(罗斯兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rossioglossum'''''|i}} (Schltr.) Garay & G. C. Kenn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龟壳兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chelyorchis'''''|i}} Dressler & N. H. Williams
*139. '''[[战王兰属]]''' {{Sm|(香花兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cuitlauzina'''''|i}} La Llave & Lex.
*140. '''[[距心兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichocentrum'''''|i}} Poepp. & Endl.
*141. '''[[织辫兰属]]''' {{Sm|(洛克兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lockhartia'''''|i}} Hook.
*142. '''[[文心兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oncidium'''''|i}} Sw.
*143. '''[[齿舌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Odontoglossum'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜗牛兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochlioda'''''|i}} Lindl.
*144. '''[[美堇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Miltoniopsis'''''|i}} God.-Leb.
*145. '''[[高加兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caucaea'''''|i}} Schltr.
*146. '''[[凸唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtochilum'''''|i}} Kunth
*147. '''[[堇花兰属]]''' {{Sm|(密尔顿兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Miltonia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*148. '''[[喜兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aspasia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*149. '''[[丘茧兰属]]''' {{Sm|(爱达兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ada'''''|i}} Lindl.
*150. '''[[长萼兰属]]''' {{Sm|(蜘蛛兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brassia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*151. '''[[扇叶兰属]]''' {{Sm|(埃利兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Erycina'''''|i}} Lindl.
*152. '''[[虎斑兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhynchostele'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舟舌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lemboglossum'''''|i}} Halb.
*153. '''[[宫美兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小人兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gomesa'''''|i}} R. Br.
*154. '''[[鸟柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ornithophora'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*155. '''[[富仙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zelenkoa'''''|i}} M. W. Chase & N. H. Williams
*156. '''[[剑心兰属]]''' {{Sm|(托伦兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tolumnia'''''|i}} Raf.
*157. '''[[光唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leochilus'''''|i}} Knowles & Westc.
*158. '''[[鞋堇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ionopsis'''''|i}} Kunth
*159. '''[[凹唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小茎兰属，孔帕兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Comparettia'''''|i}} Poepp. & Endl.
*160. '''[[套距兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rodriguezia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*161. '''[[长腺兰属]]''' {{Sm|(长盘兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Macradenia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*162. '''[[驼背兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Notylia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*163. '''[[烈日兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriopsis'''''|i}} Lindl.
*164. '''[[耳柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otostylis'''''|i}} Schltr.
*165. '''[[豹皮兰属]]''' {{Sm|(普兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Promenaea'''''|i}} Lindl.
*166. '''[[抱婴兰属]]''' {{Sm|(巴特兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Batemannia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*167. '''[[缟狸兰属]]''' {{Sm|(加柳兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Galeottia'''''|i}} A. Rich. & Galeotti
*168. '''[[接萼兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zygosepalum'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*169. '''[[飞鹰兰属]]''' {{Sm|(帕勃兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pabstia'''''|i}} Garay
*170. '''[[轭瓣兰属]]''' {{Sm|(接瓣兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Zygopetalum'''''|i}} Hook.
*171. '''[[篦叶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dichaea'''''|i}} Lindl.
*172. '''[[羚角兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chondrorhyncha'''''|i}} Lindl.
*173. '''[[贝唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochleanthes'''''|i}} Raf.
*174. '''[[钩盘兰属]]''' {{Sm|(克兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kefersteinia'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*175. '''[[修丽兰属]]''' {{Sm|(帕卡兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pescatoria'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*176. '''[[盾羚兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Warczewiczella'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*177. '''[[双柄兰属]]''' {{Sm|(二缰兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bifrenaria'''''|i}} Lindl.
*178. '''[[鞭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scuticaria'''''|i}} Lindl.
*179. '''[[长寿兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xylobium'''''|i}} Lindl.
*180. '''[[捧心兰属]]''' {{Sm|(薄叶兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lycaste'''''|i}} Lindl.
*181. '''[[南捧心兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sudamerlycaste'''''|i}} Archila
*182. '''[[郁香兰属]]''' {{Sm|(郁金香兰属，安古兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anguloa'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*183. '''[[鸟腭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ornithidium'''''|i}} Salisb. ex R. Br.
*184. '''[[沟腭兰属]]''' {{Sm|(巴西兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brasiliorchis'''''|i}} R. B. Singer, S. Koehler & Carnevali
*185. '''[[怪花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mormolyca'''''|i}} Fenzl
*186. '''[[壶唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Christensonella'''''|i}} Szlach., Mytnik, Górniak & &#346;miszek
*187. '''[[茵腭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhetinantha'''''|i}} M. A. Blanco
*188. '''[[小腭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maxillariella'''''|i}} M. A. Blanco & Carnevali
*189. '''[[折腭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trigonidium'''''|i}} Lindl.
*190. '''[[石腭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Camaridium'''''|i}} Lindl.
*191. '''[[腭唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(颚唇兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Maxillaria'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*192. '''[[鸽兰属]]''' {{Sm|(鸽子兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Peristeria'''''|i}} Hook.
*193. '''[[须喙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cirrhaea'''''|i}} Lindl.
*194. '''[[爪唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gongora'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*195. '''[[吊桶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coryanthes'''''|i}} Hook.
*196. '''[[奇唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(马车兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stanhopea'''''|i}} Frost ex Hook.
*197. '''[[花豹兰属]]''' {{Sm|(侯勒兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Houlletia'''''|i}} Brongn.
*198. '''[[固唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(定唇兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acineta'''''|i}} Lindl.
*199. '''[[禾叶兰属]]'''　'''''Agrostophyllum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾禾叶兰属]]'''　'''''Diploconchium''''' Schauer
*200. '''[[凸粉兰属]]''' {{Sm|(粉兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Coelia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*201. '''[[布袋兰属]]'''　'''''Calypso''''' Salisb.
*202. '''[[宽距兰属]]'''　'''''Yoania''''' Maxim.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云兰属]]'''　'''''Yunorchis''''' Z. J. Liu, G. Q. Zhang & Ming H. Li
*203. '''[[独花兰属]]'''　'''''Changnienia''''' S. S. Chien
*204. '''[[筒距兰属]]'''　'''''Tipularia''''' Nutt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[软叶兰属]]'''　'''''Didiciea''''' King & Prain ex King & Pantl.
*205. '''[[腻根兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aplectrum'''''|i}} (Nutt.) Torr.
*206. '''[[杜鹃兰属]]'''　'''''Cremastra''''' Lindl.
*207. '''[[丹霞兰属]]'''　'''''Danxiaorchis''''' J. W. Zhai, F. W. Xing & Z. J. Liu
*208. '''[[山兰属]]'''　'''''Oreorchis''''' Lindl.
*209. '''[[唇兰属]]'''　'''''Kitigorchis''''' F. Maek.
*210. '''[[珊瑚兰属]]'''　'''''Corallorhiza''''' Gagnebin
*211. '''[[合粉兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chysis'''''|i}} Lindl.
*212. '''[[拟白及属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bletia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*213. '''[[八团兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Octomeria'''''|i}} R. Br.
*214. '''[[蜚蠊兰属]]''' {{Sm|(甲虫兰属，雷氏兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Restrepia'''''|i}} Kunth
*215. '''[[蛇头兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟雷氏兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Restrepiella'''''|i}} Garay & Dunst.
*216. '''[[球销兰属]]''' {{Sm|(巴波兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Barbosella'''''|i}} Schltr.
*217. '''[[梗帽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acianthera'''''|i}} Scheidw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[窗兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptophoranthus'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*218. '''[[虫首兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zootrophion'''''|i}} Luer
*219. '''[[羽线兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anathallis'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*220. '''[[绒帽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichosalpinx'''''|i}} Luer
*221. '''[[婴靴兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lepanthes'''''|i}} Sw.
*222. '''[[小龙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dracula'''''|i}} Luer
*223. '''[[尾萼兰属]]''' {{Sm|(三尖兰属，细瓣兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Masdevallia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*224. '''[[银光兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stelis'''''|i}} Sw.
*225. '''[[腋花兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟肋兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pleurothallis'''''|i}} R. Br.
*226. '''[[雉斑兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dryadella'''''|i}} Luer
*227. '''[[碗萼兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scaphosepalum'''''|i}} Pfitzer
*228. '''[[帽花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Specklinia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*229. '''[[镰叶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arpophyllum'''''|i}} La Llave & Lex.
*230. '''[[秀钗兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leptotes'''''|i}} Lindl.
*231. '''[[群丽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudolaelia'''''|i}} Porto & Brade
*232. '''[[树甲兰属]]''' {{Sm|(孔唐兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Constantia'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*233. '''[[玉贞兰属]]''' {{Sm|(伊萨兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Isabelia'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*234. '''[[附柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Prosthechea'''''|i}} Knowles & Westc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[章鱼兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacheilium'''''|i}} Rchb. ex Hoffmanns.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[笼唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euchile'''''|i}} (Dressler & G. E. Pollard) Withner
*235. '''[[围柱兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Encyclia'''''|i}} Hook.
*236. '''[[双丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dinema'''''|i}} Lindl.
*237. '''[[束刀兰属]]''' {{Sm|(杰圭兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jacquiniella'''''|i}} Schltr.
*238. '''[[渠唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(碗唇兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Scaphyglottis'''''|i}} Poepp. & Endl.
*239. '''[[幡唇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(多明兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Domingoa'''''|i}} Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[樱草兰属]]''' {{Sm|(纳格兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nageliella'''''|i}} L. O. Williams
*240. '''[[紫薇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(波东兰属，布鲁通兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Broughtonia'''''|i}} R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海裙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cattleyopsis'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旱薇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laeliopsis'''''|i}} Lindl. ex Paxton
*241. '''[[糖芥兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetramicra'''''|i}} Lindl.
*242. '''[[弱冠兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meiracyllium'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*243. '''[[哥丽兰属]]''' {{Sm|(新兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Guarianthe'''''|i}} Dressler & W. E. Higgins
*244. '''[[喙丽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhyncholaelia'''''|i}} Schltr.
*245. '''[[柏拉兰属]]''' {{Sm|(白拉索兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brassavola'''''|i}} R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜丽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Javieria'''''|i}} Archila, Chiron & Szlach.
*246. '''[[卡特兰属]]''' {{Sm|(嘉德丽亚兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cattleya'''''|i}} Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贞兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sophronitis'''''|i}} Lindl.
*247. '''[[蕾丽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laelia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*248. '''[[香蕉兰属]]''' {{Sm|(熊保兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schomburgkia'''''|i}} Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[素蕉兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Encabarcenia'''''|i}} Archila & Szlach.
*249. '''[[蚁蕉兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Myrmecophila'''''|i}} Rolfe
*250. '''[[朱虾兰属]]''' {{Sm|(巴克兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Barkeria'''''|i}} Knowles & Westc.
*251. '''[[双角兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caularthron'''''|i}} Raf.
*252. '''[[树兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Epidendrum'''''|i}} L.
*253. '''[[毛梗兰属]]'''　'''''Eriodes''''' Rolfe
*254. '''[[离翅兰属]]'''　'''''Preptanthe''''' Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[葫芦茎离翅兰属]]'''　'''''Calanthidium''''' Pfitzer
*255. '''[[鹤顶兰属]]'''　'''''Phaius''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小鹤顶兰属]]'''　'''''Limatodis''''' Blume
*256. '''[[黄兰属]]'''　'''''Cephalantheropsis''''' Guillaumin
*257. '''[[落苞兰属]]'''　'''''Styloglossum''''' Breda
*258. '''[[拟鹤顶兰属]]'''　'''''Hecabe''''' Raf.
*259. '''[[虾脊兰属]]'''　'''''Calanthe''''' R. Br.
*260. '''[[钩唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ancistrochilus'''''|i}} Rolfe
*261. '''[[苞舌兰属]]'''　'''''Spathoglottis''''' Blume
*262. '''[[坛花兰属]]'''　'''''Acanthephippium''''' Blume ex Endl.
*263. '''[[安兰属]]'''　'''''Ania''''' Lindl.
*264. '''[[卷舌兰属]]''' {{Sm|(坚唇兰属，固唇兰属)}}　'''''Plocoglottis''''' Blume
*265. '''[[滇兰属]]'''　'''''Hancockia''''' Rolfe
*266. '''[[带唇兰属]]'''　'''''Tainia''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊带兰属]]'''　'''''Ascotainia''''' Ridl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球柄兰属]]'''　'''''Mischobulbum''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝瓣兰属]]'''　'''''Mitopetalum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云叶兰属]]'''　'''''Nephelaphyllum''''' Blume
*267. '''[[吻兰属]]'''　'''''Collabium''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假吻兰属]]'''　'''''Collabiopsis''''' S. S. Ying
*268. '''[[紫茎兰属]]'''　'''''Risleya''''' King & Pantl.
*269. '''[[金唇兰属]]'''　'''''Chrysoglossum''''' Blume
*270. '''[[粉口兰属]]'''　'''''Pachystoma''''' Blume
*271. '''[[密花兰属]]'''　'''''Diglyphosa''''' Blume
*272. '''[[矮柱兰属]]'''　'''''Thelasis''''' Blume
*273. '''[[馥兰属]]'''　'''''Phreatia''''' Lindl.
*274. '''[[毛兰属]]'''　'''''Eria''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高脊毛兰属]]'''　'''''Trichosma''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玫瑰毛兰属]]'''　'''''Xiphosium''''' Griff.
*275. '''[[盾柄兰属]]'''　'''''Porpax''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛤兰属]]'''　'''''Conchidium''''' Griff.
*276. '''[[牛齿兰属]]'''　'''''Appendicula''''' Blume
*277. '''[[柄唇兰属]]'''　'''''Podochilus''''' Blume
*278. '''[[竹叶毛兰属]]'''　'''''Bambuseria''''' Schuit., Y. P. Ng & H. A. Pedersen
*279. '''[[宿苞兰属]]'''　'''''Cryptochilus''''' Wall.
*280. '''[[绒兰属]]'''　'''''Dendrolirium''''' Blume
*281. '''[[拟石斛属]]'''　'''''Oxystophyllum''''' Blume
*282. '''[[毛鞘兰属]]'''　'''''Trichotosia''''' Blume
*283. '''[[拟毛兰属]]'''　'''''Mycaranthes''''' Blume
*284. '''[[苹兰属]]'''　'''''Pinalia''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[有节苹兰属]]'''　'''''Hymeneria''''' (Lindl.) M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones
*285. '''[[石榴兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mediocalcar'''''|i}} J. J. Sm.
*286. '''[[气穗兰属]]'''　'''''Aeridostachya''''' (Hook. f.) Brieger
*287. '''[[美柱兰属]]'''　'''''Callostylis''''' Blume
*288. '''[[钟兰属]]'''　'''''Campanulorchis''''' Brieger
*289. '''[[柱兰属]]'''　'''''Cylindrolobus''''' Blume
*290. '''[[毛苞兰属]]'''　'''''Strongyleria''''' (Pfitzer) Schuit., Y. P. Ng & H. A. Pedersen
*291. '''[[藓兰属]]'''　'''''Bryobium''''' Lindl.
*292. '''[[牛角兰属]]'''　'''''Ceratostylis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉枝牛角兰属]]'''　'''''Ritaia''''' King & Pantl.
*293. '''[[球穗兰属]]''' {{Sm|(纽本兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neobenthamia'''''|i}} Rolfe
*294. '''[[多穗兰属]]'''　'''''Polystachya''''' Hook.
*295. '''[[白苇兰属]]''' {{Sm|(布隆兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bromheadia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*296. '''[[长足兰属]]''' {{Sm|(长脚兰属)}}　'''''Pteroceras''''' Hasselt ex Hassk.
*297. '''[[火炬兰属]]'''　'''''Grosourdya''''' Rchb. f.
*298. '''[[肉唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcochilus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*299. '''[[带叶兰属]]'''　'''''Taeniophyllum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟蜘蛛兰属]]''' {{Sm|(微兰属)}}　'''''Microtatorchis''''' Schltr.
*300. '''[[虾尾兰属]]'''　'''''Parapteroceras''''' Aver.
*301. '''[[胼胝兰属]]'''　'''''Biermannia''''' King & Pantl.
*302. '''[[宿唇兰属]]'''　'''''Chroniochilus''''' J. J. Sm.
*303. '''[[巾唇兰属]]'''　'''''Pennilabium''''' J. J. Sm.
*304. '''[[吕宋兰属]]''' {{Sm|(阿梅兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Amesiella'''''|i}} Schltr. ex Garay
*305. '''[[红头兰属]]''' {{Sm|(管唇兰属)}}　'''''Tuberolabium''''' Yamam.
*306. '''[[异型兰属]]'''　'''''Chiloschista''''' Lindl.
*307. '''[[蝴蝶兰属]]''' {{Sm|(蝶兰属)}}　'''''Phalaenopsis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五唇兰属]]'''　'''''Doritis''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[齿脊蝴蝶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Grussia'''''|i}} M. Wolff
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖囊兰属]]'''　'''''Kingidium''''' P. F. Hunt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[袋距兰属]]'''　'''''Lesliea''''' Seidenf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[象鼻兰属]]'''　'''''Nothodoritis''''' Z. H. Tsi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹿角蝶兰属]]'''　'''''Polychilos''''' Breda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶蝴蝶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stauritis'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小兰屿蝴蝶兰属]]'''　'''''Stauroglottis''''' Schauer
*308. '''[[羽唇兰属]]'''　'''''Ornithochilus''''' (Wall. ex Lindl.) Benth. & Hook. f.
*309. '''[[湿唇兰属]]'''　'''''Hygrochilus''''' Pfitzer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[萼脊兰属]]'''　'''''Sedirea''''' Garay & H. R. Sweet
*310. '''[[白点兰属]]'''　'''''Thrixspermum''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扭白点兰属]]'''　'''''Dendrocolla''''' Blume
*311. '''[[筒叶蝶兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟蝶兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Paraphalaenopsis'''''|i}} A. D. Hawkes
*312. '''[[凤蝶兰属]]'''　'''''Papilionanthe''''' Schltr.
*313. '''[[钗子股属]]'''　'''''Luisia''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花钗子股属]]'''　'''''Mesoclastes''''' Lindl.
*314. '''[[风兰属]]'''　'''''Neofinetia''''' Hu
*315. '''[[万代兰属]]'''　'''''Vanda''''' Jones ex R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[万灵兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euanthe'''''|i}} Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垂头万代兰属]]'''　'''''Trudelia''''' Garay
*316. '''[[举喙兰属]]''' {{Sm|(塞氏兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Seidenfadenia'''''|i}} Garay
*317. '''[[翠瓶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Christensonia'''''|i}} Haager
*318. '''[[鸟舌兰属]]''' {{Sm|(囊距兰属)}}　'''''Ascocentrum''''' Schltr. ex J. J. Sm.
*319. '''[[短距兰属]]''' {{Sm|(心启兰属)}}　'''''Penkimia''''' Phukan & Odyuo
*320. '''[[吉兰属]]'''　'''''Tsiorchis''''' Z. J. Liu, S. C. Chen & L. J. Chen
*321. '''[[悬生兰属]]'''　'''''Pendulorchis''''' Z. J. Liu, K. Wei Liu & G. Q. Zhang
*322. '''[[拟槽舌兰属]]'''　'''''Paraholcoglossum''''' Z. J. Liu, S. C. Chen & L. J. Chen
*323. '''[[槽舌兰属]]'''　'''''Holcoglossum''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假囊距兰属]]'''　'''''Ascolabium''''' S. S. Ying
*324. '''[[钻喙兰属]]'''　'''''Rhynchostylis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无耳兰属]]'''　'''''Anota''''' Schltr.
*325. '''[[指甲兰属]]'''　'''''Aerides''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香花指甲兰属]]'''　'''''Orxera''''' Raf.
*326. '''[[火焰兰属]]'''　'''''Renanthera''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[袋舌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ascoglossum'''''|i}} Schltr.
*327. '''[[花蜘蛛兰属]]'''　'''''Esmeralda''''' Rchb. f.
*328. '''[[蜘蛛兰属]]'''　'''''Arachnis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸟仔兰属]]''' {{Sm|(阿芒多兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Armodorum'''''|i}} Breda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙爪兰属]]'''　'''''Arrhynchium''''' Lindl.
*329. '''[[脆兰属]]'''　'''''Acampe''''' Lindl.
*330. '''[[小囊兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小袋兰属)}}　'''''Micropera''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喙柱小囊兰属]]'''　'''''Camarotis''''' Lindl.
*331. '''[[腺钗兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adenoncos'''''|i}} Blume
*332. '''[[船唇兰属]]'''　'''''Cymbilabia''''' D. K. Liu & Ming H. Li
*333. '''[[掌唇兰属]]'''　'''''Staurochilus''''' Ridl. ex Pfitzer
*334. '''[[毛舌兰属]]'''　'''''Trichoglottis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[架舌兰属]]'''　'''''Stauropsis''''' Rchb. f.
*335. '''[[鹿角兰属]]'''　'''''Pomatocalpa''''' Breda
*336. '''[[香兰属]]''' {{Sm|(原义江兰属)}}　'''''Haraella''''' Kud&ocirc;
*337. '''[[盆距兰属]]'''　'''''Gastrochilus''''' D. Don
*338. '''[[蛇舌兰属]]'''　'''''Diploprora''''' Hook. f.
*339. '''[[拟万代兰属]]''' {{Sm|(假万带兰属)}}　'''''Vandopsis''''' Pfitzer
*340. '''[[尾唇兰属]]'''　'''''Echioglossum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大序兰属]]'''　'''''Garayanthus''''' Szlach.
*341. '''[[钻柱兰属]]'''　'''''Pelatantheria''''' Ridl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉兰属]]'''　'''''Sarcophyton''''' Garay
*342. '''[[匙唇兰属]]'''　'''''Schoenorchis''''' Blume
*343. '''[[槌柱兰属]]'''　'''''Malleola''''' J. J. Sm. & Schltr.
*344. '''[[寄树兰属]]'''　'''''Robiquetia''''' Gaudich.
*345. '''[[盖喉兰属]]'''　'''''Smitinandia''''' Holttum
*346. '''[[叉喙兰属]]'''　'''''Uncifera''''' Lindl.
*347. '''[[隔距兰属]]'''　'''''Cleisostoma''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊角隔距兰属]]'''　'''''Raciborskanthos''''' Szlach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大喙兰属]]'''　'''''Sarcoglyphis''''' Garay
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚唇兰属]]'''　'''''Stereochilus''''' Lindl.
*348. '''[[低药兰属]]''' {{Sm|(微花兰属)}}　'''''Chamaeanthus''''' Schltr. ex J. J. Sm.
*349. '''[[拟隔距兰属]]'''　'''''Cleisostomopsis''''' Seidenf.
*350. '''[[拟囊唇兰属]]'''　'''''Saccolabiopsis''''' J. J. Sm.
*351. '''[[心启兰属]]''' {{Sm|(心兰属)}}　'''''Singchia''''' Z. J. Liu & L. J. Chen
*352. '''[[气花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aeranthes'''''|i}} Lindl.
*353. '''[[长距星兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macroplectrum'''''|i}} Pfitzer
*354. '''[[矛唇兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jumellea'''''|i}} Schltr.
*355. '''[[彗星兰属]]''' {{Sm|(武夷兰属，风兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Angraecum'''''|i}} Bory
*356. '''[[银鸟兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oeoniella'''''|i}} Schltr.
*357. '''[[鸟花兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oeonia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*358. '''[[隐足兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptopus'''''|i}} Lindl.
*359. '''[[透瓣兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diaphananthe'''''|i}} Schltr.
*360. '''[[攀根兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Solenangis'''''|i}} Schltr.
*361. '''[[抱树兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dendrophylax'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[幽灵兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Polyradicion'''''|i}} Garay
*362. '''[[小彗星兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Angraecopsis'''''|i}} Kraenzl.
*363. '''[[锤喙兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sphyrarhynchus'''''|i}} Mansf.
*364. '''[[空船兰属]]''' {{Sm|(船形兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aerangis'''''|i}} Rchb. f.
*365. '''[[弧距兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtorchis'''''|i}} Schltr.
*366. '''[[裂距兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podangis'''''|i}} Schltr.
*367. '''[[三指兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tridactyle'''''|i}} Schltr.
*368. '''[[蠕距兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plectrelminthus'''''|i}} Raf.
*369. '''[[双船兰属]]''' {{Sm|(朗加兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rangaeris'''''|i}} (Schltr.) Summerh.
===264. [[聚星草科]]　Asteliaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[聚星草属]]''' {{Sm|(无柱花属，芳香草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Astelia'''''|i}} Banks & Sol. ex R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南极聚星草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Skizima'''''|i}} Raf.
===265. [[仙茅科]]　Hypoxidaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[小仙梅草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Empodium'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小星梅草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spiloxene'''''|i}} Salisb.
*2. '''[[小金梅草属]]'''　'''''Hypoxis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红金梅草属]]''' {{Sm|(樱茅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhodohypoxis'''''|i}} Nel
*3. '''[[仙茅属]]'''　'''''Curculigo''''' Gaertn.
*4. '''[[台山仙茅属]]''' {{Sm|(华茅属，华仙茅属)}}　'''''Sinocurculigo''''' Z. J. Liu, L. J. Chen & K. Wei Liu
*5. '''[[大叶仙茅属]]'''　'''''Molineria''''' Colla
===266. [[矛花科]]　Doryanthaceae R. Dahlgren & Clifford===
*1. '''[[矛花属]]''' {{Sm|(矛缨花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Doryanthes'''''|i}} Corrêa
===267. [[鸢尾蒜科]]　Ixioliriaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[鸢尾蒜属]]'''　'''''Ixiolirion''''' Fisch. ex Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假管鸢尾蒜属]]'''　'''''Kolpakowskia''''' Regel
===268. [[蓝嵩莲科]]　Tecophilaeaceae Leyb.===
*1. '''[[西风莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zephyra'''''|i}} D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝嵩莲属]]''' {{Sm|(百鸢属，异蕊草属，智利秋水仙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tecophilaea'''''|i}} Bertero ex Colla
*2. '''[[喉齿莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Odontostomum'''''|i}} Torr.
*3. '''[[蓝星莲属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝星属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyanastrum'''''|i}} Oliv.
*4. '''[[漠堇莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eremiolirion'''''|i}} J. C. Manning & H. S. Forest
*5. '''[[美堇莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyanella'''''|i}} Royen ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银堇莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pharetrella'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫堇莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trigella'''''|i}} Salisb.
===269. [[鸢尾科]]　Iridaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Iris''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[射干属]]'''　'''''Belamcanda''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琴瓣鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Chamaeiris''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天山鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Cryptobasis''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马蔺属]]'''　'''''Eremiris''''' Rodion.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝴蝶花属]]'''　'''''Evansia''''' (Alef.) Salisb. ex Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇头鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(黑花鸢尾属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hermodactylus'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫苞鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Joniris''''' (Spach) Klatt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尼泊尔鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Junopsis''''' Wern. Schulze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[溪荪属]]'''　'''''Limniris''''' (Tausch) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Lophiris''''' (Tausch) M. B. Crespo, Mart.-Azorín & Mavrodiev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单苞鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Ophioiris''''' (Y. T. Zhao) Rodion.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸢尾射干属]]''' {{Sm|(彩射干属)}}　{{Nt|'''''× Pardancanda'''''|i}} L. W. Lenz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Pardanthopsis''''' (Hance) L. W. Lenz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[六角鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phaeiris'''''|i}} (Spach) M. B. Crespo, Mart.-Azorín & Mavrodiev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudo-iris'''''|i}} Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[准噶尔鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Sclerosiphon''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[怪味鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spathula'''''|i}} (Tausch) Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西班牙鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xiphion'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长尾鸢尾属]]'''　'''''Zhaoanthus''''' M. B. Crespo, Mart.-Azorín & Mavrodiev
*2. '''[[离被鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dietes'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Klatt
*3. '''[[魔星兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ferraria'''''|i}} Burm. ex Mill.
*4. '''[[肖鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(梦蕾花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Moraea'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆星鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barnardiella'''''|i}} Goldblatt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地金鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galaxia'''''|i}} Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阴阳兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gynandriris'''''|i}} Parl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝柱鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hexaglottis'''''|i}} Vent.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金香鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(合满花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Homeria'''''|i}} Vent.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝇鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phaianthes'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[孔雀鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vieusseuxia'''''|i}} D. Delaroche
*5. '''[[晨鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orthrosanthus'''''|i}} Sweet
*6. '''[[丽白花属]]''' {{Sm|(利氏鸢尾属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Libertia'''''|i}} Spreng.
*7. '''[[春钟花属]]''' {{Sm|(春钟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Olsynium'''''|i}} Raf.
*8. '''[[庭菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sisyrinchium'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[智利庭菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Paneguia'''''|v}} Raf.
*9. '''[[巴西鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neomarica'''''|i}} Sprague
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[行者鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galathea'''''|i}} Liebm.
*10. '''[[黄扇鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trimezia'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Herb.
*11. '''[[杯鸢花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cypella'''''|i}} Herb.
*12. '''[[瓶蕊鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Herbertia'''''|i}} Sweet
*13. '''[[红葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eleutherine'''''|v}} Herb.
*14. '''[[虎皮花属]]''' {{Sm|(虎皮兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tigridia'''''|i}} Juss.
*15. '''[[蓝星鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝星花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aristea'''''|i}} Aiton
*16. '''[[弯管鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(沃森花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Watsonia'''''|i}} Mill.
*17. '''[[长管鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(拉培疏鸢尾属，拉培疏属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lapeirousia'''''|i}} Pourr.
*18. '''[[尖瓣菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melasphaerula'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
*19. '''[[唐菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gladiolus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩眼花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acidanthera'''''|i}} Hochst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[意大利唐菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ballosporum'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花唐菖蒲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Symphydolon'''''|i}} Salisb.
*20. '''[[香雪兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小苍兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Freesia'''''|i}} Eckl. ex Klatt
*21. '''[[雄黄兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crocosmia'''''|i}} Planch.
*22. '''[[沙丽花属]]''' {{Sm|(罗慕花属，罗慕丽属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Romulea'''''|i}} Maratti
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草原沙缎花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spatalanthus'''''|i}} Sweet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙顽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichonema'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
*23. '''[[番红花属]]'''　'''''Crocus''''' L.
*24. '''[[丁香鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Syringodea'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*25. '''[[夜鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hesperantha'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂柱鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(裂柱莲属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schizostylis'''''|i}} Backh. & Harv. ex Hook. f.
*26. '''[[酒杯花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Geissorhiza'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[倾杯花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Engysiphon'''''|i}} G. J. Lewis
*27. '''[[豁裂花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chasmanthe'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*28. '''[[狒狒草属]]''' {{Sm|(穗花溪荪属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Babiana'''''|i}} Ker Gawl. ex Sims
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬毛蜜鸟鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anaclanthe'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜜鸟鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Antholyza'''''|i}} L.
*29. '''[[魔杖花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sparaxis'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雅杖花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Streptanthera'''''|i}} Sweet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[漏斗莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Synnotia'''''|i}} Sweet
*30. '''[[漏斗鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dierama'''''|i}} K. Koch
*31. '''[[观音兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tritonia'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铜鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Montbretia'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金兰鸢尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Montbretiopsis'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*32. '''[[谷鸢尾属]]''' {{Sm|(小鸢尾属，鸟胶花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ixia'''''|i}} L.
===270. [[阿福花科]]　Asphodelaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[阿福花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Asphodelus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[葱叶阿福花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Asphodeloides'''''|i}} Moench
*2. '''[[日光兰属]]''' {{Sm|(金穗花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Asphodeline'''''|i}} Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小苞日光兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ifuon'''''|i}} Raf.
*3. '''[[火把莲属]]''' {{Sm|(火炬花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kniphofia'''''|i}} Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灰绿火把莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tritoma'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
*4. '''[[粗尾草属]]''' {{Sm|(凤尾百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bulbinella'''''|i}} Kunth
*5. '''[[糙蕊草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trachyandra'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扭叶糙蕊草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dilanthes'''''|i}} Salisb.
*6. '''[[独尾草属]]'''　'''''Eremurus''''' M. Bieb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗柄独尾草属]]'''　'''''Ammolirion''''' Kar. & Kir.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异翅独尾草属]]'''　'''''Henningia''''' Kar. & Kir.
*7. '''[[须尾草属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞芹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bulbine'''''|i}} Wolf
*8. '''[[树芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aloidendron'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Klopper & Gideon F. Sm.
*9. '''[[折扇芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kumara'''''|i}} Medik.
*10. '''[[牡丹卷属]]''' {{Sm|(十二卷属，蛇尾掌属，蛇尾兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Haworthia'''''|i}} Duval
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[寿宝殿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kumaria'''''|i}} Raf.
*11. '''[[蔓芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aloiampelos'''''|i}} Klopper & Gideon F. Sm.
*12. '''[[芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aloe'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[好望角芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agriodendron'''''|i}} Haw. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞茎芦荟属]]''' {{Sm|(枯百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chortolirion'''''|i}} A. Berger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白花芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guillauminia'''''|i}} A. Bertrand
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琉璃芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lemeea'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[浆果芦荟属]]''' {{Sm|(穗百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lomatophyllum'''''|i}} Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木立芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachidendron'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗花芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Succosaria'''''|i}} Raf.
*13. '''[[绫锦芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aristaloe'''''|i}} Boatwr. & J. C. Manning
*14. '''[[松塔掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Astroloba'''''|i}} Uitewaal
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青瓷塔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Poellnitzia'''''|i}} Uitewaal
*15. '''[[什锦芦荟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gonialoe'''''|i}} (Baker) Boatwr. & J. C. Manning
*16. '''[[珠纹卷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tulista'''''|i}} Raf.
*17. '''[[十二卷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Haworthiopsis'''''|i}} G. D. Rowley
*18. '''[[鲨鱼掌属]]''' {{Sm|(白星龙属，脂麻掌属，砂鱼掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gasteria'''''|i}} Duval
*19. '''[[黄脂木属]]''' {{Sm|(木根旱生草属，草树胶属，刺叶树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xanthorrhoea'''''|i}} Sm.
*20. '''[[麻兰属]]''' {{Sm|(新西兰麻属，灵惠麻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phormium'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*21. '''[[山菅兰属]]''' {{Sm|(山菅属)}}　'''''Dianella''''' Lam. ex Juss.
*22. '''[[萱草属]]'''　'''''Hemerocallis''''' L.
===271. [[石蒜科]]　Amaryllidaceae J. St.-Hil.===
*1. '''[[百子莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agapanthus'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*2. '''[[葱属]]'''　'''''Allium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三棱葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Briseis'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[韭属]]'''　'''''Butomissa''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合被韭属]]'''　'''''Caloscordum''''' Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[洋葱属]]'''　'''''Cepa''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高莛韭属]]'''　'''''Geboscon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茖葱属]]'''　'''''Loncostemon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鼠蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maligia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗花韭属]]'''　'''''Milula''''' Prain
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花茖葱属]]'''　'''''Moly''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南欧蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Porrum'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山韭属]]'''　'''''Rhizirideum''''' (G. Don) Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北葱属]]'''　'''''Schoenoprasum''''' Kunth
*3. '''[[紫娇花属]]''' {{Sm|(紫瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tulbaghia'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[辉熠花属]]''' {{Sm|(白棒莲属，阳光百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leucocoryne'''''|i}} Lindl.
*5. '''[[春星韭属]]''' {{Sm|(花韭属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ipheion'''''|i}} Raf.
*6. '''[[兰花韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Miersia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*7. '''[[假葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nothoscordum'''''|v}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hesperocles'''''|v}} Salisb.
*8. '''[[孤挺花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amaryllis'''''|i}} L.
*9. '''[[布风花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Boophone'''''|i}} Herb.
*10. '''[[文殊兰属]]'''　'''''Crinum''''' L.
*11. '''[[风殊兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cybistetes'''''|i}} Milne-Redh. & Schweick.
*12. '''[[沙殊兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ammocharis'''''|i}} Herb.
*13. '''[[嫩石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bokkeveldia'''''|i}} D. Müll.-Doblies & U. Müll.-Doblies
*14. '''[[鬃叶花盏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crossyne'''''|i}} Salisb.
*15. '''[[柔石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Strumaria'''''|i}} Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carpolyza'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[波瓣石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gemmaria'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细雪石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nesynstylis'''''|i}} Raf.
*16. '''[[娇石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hessea'''''|i}} Herb.
*17. '''[[纳丽花属]]''' {{Sm|(尼润石蒜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nerine'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夏纳丽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laticoma'''''|i}} Raf.
*18. '''[[花盏属]]''' {{Sm|(灯台花属，伞百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brunsvigia'''''|i}} Heist.
*19. '''[[美冠水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calostemma'''''|i}} R. Br.
*20. '''[[玉簪水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Proiphys'''''|i}} Herb.
*21. '''[[垂筒花属]]''' {{Sm|(曲管花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtanthus'''''|i}} Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金焰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anoiganthus'''''|i}} Baker
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纹焰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gastronema'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[弹簧垂筒花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monnella'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[朱焰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vallota'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Herb.
*22. '''[[小君兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptostephanus'''''|i}} Welw. ex Baker
*23. '''[[君子兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clivia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*24. '''[[香果石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gethyllis'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盘鞘石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Klingia'''''|i}} Sch&ouml;nland
*25. '''[[网球花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scadoxus'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[榴笔花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gyaxis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*26. '''[[虎耳兰属]]''' {{Sm|(火球花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Haemanthus'''''|i}} L.
*27. '''[[石蒜属]]'''　'''''Lycoris''''' Herb.
*28. '''[[黄韭兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sternbergia'''''|i}} Waldst. & Kit.
*29. '''[[全能花属]]''' {{Sm|(力药花属)}}　'''''Pancratium''''' L.
*30. '''[[水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Narcissus'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ajax'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calathinus'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄裙水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corbularia'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三蕊水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ganymedes'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丁香水仙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hermione'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Haw.
*31. '''[[秋雪片莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*32. '''[[雪片莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucojum'''''|i}} L.
*33. '''[[雪滴花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galanthus'''''|i}} L.
*34. '''[[瀑石花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Worsleya'''''|i}} (W. Watson ex Traub) Traub
*35. '''[[朱顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hippeastrum'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花朱顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chonais'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白肋朱顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eusarcops'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细瓣朱顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lepidopharynx'''''|i}} Rusby
*36. '''[[葱莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zephyranthes'''''|v}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜星葱莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Cooperanthes'''''|i}} Percy-Lanc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜星花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cooperia'''''|v}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫鹃莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eithea'''''|i}} Ravenna
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美花莲属]]''' {{Sm|(大韭兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Habranthus'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟葱莲属]]''' {{Sm|(拟葱兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Haylockia'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿心葱莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mesochloa'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[韭莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pogonema'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[燕水仙属]]''' {{Sm|(龙头花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sprekelia'''''|i}} Heist.
*37. '''[[山顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhodolirium'''''|i}} Phil.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙顶红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Placea'''''|i}} Miers ex Miers
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小顶红属]]''' {{Sm|(红瓶兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhodophiala'''''|i}} C. Presl
*38. '''[[黛玉花属]]''' {{Sm|(千花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chlidanthus'''''|i}} Herb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细玉花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Castellanoa'''''|i}} Traub
*39. '''[[银杯水仙属]]''' {{Sm|(鳌瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pamianthe'''''|i}} Stapf
*40. '''[[青带蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clinanthus'''''|i}} Herb.
*41. '''[[水鬼蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hymenocallis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*42. '''[[魅鬼蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ismene'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Herb.
*43. '''[[青玉石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rauhia'''''|i}} Traub
*44. '''[[翠尾石蒜属]]''' {{Sm|(后喜花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phaedranassa'''''|i}} Herb.
*45. '''[[南美水仙属]]''' {{Sm|(亚马逊石蒜属，白鹤花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eucharis'''''|i}} Planch. & Linden
*46. '''[[狭管蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stenomesson'''''|i}} Herb.
*47. '''[[龙须石蒜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eucrosia'''''|i}} Ker Gawl.
===272. [[天门冬科]]　Asparagaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[金星韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bloomeria'''''|i}} Kellogg
*2. '''[[无味韭属]]''' {{Sm|(紫灯花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Triteleia'''''|i}} Douglas ex Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫矛韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seubertia'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽颜韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Themis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*3. '''[[蓝壶韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dichelostemma'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞭炮韭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhytidea'''''|i}} Lindl.
*4. '''[[紫灯韭属]]''' {{Sm|(冠花韭属，卜若地属，紫灯花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brodiaea'''''|i}} Sm.
*5. '''[[瓶伞葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Behria'''''|i}} Greene
*6. '''[[高杯葱属]]''' {{Sm|(美拉花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Milla'''''|i}} Cav.
*7. '''[[罗伞葱属]]''' {{Sm|(合丝韭属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bessera'''''|i}} Schult. f.
*8. '''[[尾风信子属]]''' {{Sm|(异被风信子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dipcadi'''''|i}} Medik.
*9. '''[[扁叶兵花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trimelopter'''''|i}} Raf.
*10. '''[[虎眼万年青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stellarioides'''''|i}} Medik.
*11. '''[[哨兵花属]]''' {{Sm|(肋瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Albuca'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺毛哨兵花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Branciona'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钢丝弹簧草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Falconera'''''|i}} Salisb.
*12. '''[[夏风信子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galtonia'''''|i}} Decne.
*13. '''[[玉长青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melomphis'''''|i}} Raf.
*14. '''[[芦笋长青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Loncomelos'''''|i}} Raf.
*15. '''[[伞长青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ornithogalum'''''|i}} L.
*16. '''[[苍角殿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bowiea'''''|i}} Harv. ex Hook. f.
*17. '''[[波叶海葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Urginea'''''|i}} Steinh.
*18. '''[[岩香海葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tenicroa'''''|i}} Raf.
*19. '''[[海葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Squilla'''''|i}} Steinh.
*20. '''[[水晶海葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Litanthus'''''|i}} Harv.
*21. '''[[小苍角殿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schizobasis'''''|i}} Baker
*22. '''[[银桦海葱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Drimia'''''|i}} Jacq. ex Willd.
*23. '''[[油点百合属]]''' {{Sm|(红点草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ledebouria'''''|i}} Roth
*24. '''[[鱼鳞百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Resnova'''''|i}} Van der Merwe
*25. '''[[豹叶百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Drimiopsis'''''|i}} Lindl. ex Paxton
*26. '''[[凤梨百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eucomis'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*27. '''[[金镜花属]]''' {{Sm|(金丝粽包花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Daubenya'''''|i}} Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管镜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amphisiphon'''''|i}} W. F. Barker
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盘镜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Androsiphon'''''|i}} Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[针镜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neobakeria'''''|i}} Schltr.
*28. '''[[仙火花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Veltheimia'''''|i}} Gled.
*29. '''[[魔塔花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Whiteheadia'''''|i}} Harv.
*30. '''[[魔镜花属]]''' {{Sm|(魔镜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Massonia'''''|i}} Thunb. ex Houtt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茉莉魔镜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podocallis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*31. '''[[立金花属]]''' {{Sm|(纳金花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lachenalia'''''|i}} Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白花立金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Himas'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剑叶立金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Manlilia'''''|i}} Thunb. ex Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉铃花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Polyxena'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苍白立金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triallosia'''''|i}} Raf.
*32. '''[[绵枣儿属]]'''　'''''Barnardia''''' Lindl.
*33. '''[[紫晶风信属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brimeura'''''|i}} Salisb.
*34. '''[[蓝铃花属]]''' {{Sm|(双苞风信子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hyacinthoides'''''|i}} Heist. ex Fabr.
*35. '''[[敞壶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudomuscari'''''|i}} Garbari & Greuter
*36. '''[[蓝壶花属]]''' {{Sm|(串铃花属，麝香兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Muscari'''''|i}} Mill.
*37. '''[[恋壶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leopoldia'''''|i}} Parl.
*38. '''[[罗马风信属]]''' {{Sm|(罗马风信子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bellevalia'''''|i}} Lapeyr.
*39. '''[[蓝瑰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scilla'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地中海蓝瑰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Basaltogeton'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雪百合属]]''' {{Sm|(雪花百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chionodoxa'''''|i}} Boiss.
*40. '''[[蚁播花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Puschkinia'''''|i}} Adams
*41. '''[[垂瑰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Othocallis'''''|i}} Salisb.
*42. '''[[风信子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hyacinthus'''''|i}} L.
*43. '''[[知母属]]'''　'''''Anemarrhena''''' Bunge
*44. '''[[鹭鸶草属]]''' {{Sm|(鹭鸶兰属)}}　'''''Diuranthera''''' Hemsl.
*45. '''[[圆果吊兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anthericum'''''|i}} L.
*46. '''[[乐园百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Paradisea'''''|i}} Mazzuc.
*47. '''[[吊兰属]]'''　'''''Chlorophytum''''' Ker Gawl.
*48. '''[[玉簪属]]'''　'''''Hosta''''' Tratt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫萼属]]'''　'''''Bryocles''''' Salisb.
*49. '''[[夕丽花属]]''' {{Sm|(沙漠百合属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hesperocallis'''''|i}} A. Gray
*50. '''[[糠百合属]]''' {{Sm|(克美莲属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Camassia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*51. '''[[西丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hesperoyucca'''''|i}} (Engelm.) Baker
*52. '''[[草丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hesperaloe'''''|i}} Engelm.
*53. '''[[丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Yucca'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[千手丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcoyucca'''''|i}} (Trel.) Linding.
*54. '''[[龙荟兰属]]''' {{Sm|(龙舌草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Beschorneria'''''|i}} Kunth
*55. '''[[巨麻属]]''' {{Sm|(万年麻属，万年兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Furcraea'''''|i}} Vent.
*56. '''[[龙舌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agave'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗龙舌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Littaea'''''|i}} Tagl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[软香玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Manfreda'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[晚香玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Polianthes'''''|i}} L.
*57. '''[[朱蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cordyline'''''|v}} Comm. ex R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙血朱蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dracaenopsis'''''|i}} Planch.
*58. '''[[龙舌百合属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arthropodium'''''|i}} R. Br.
*59. '''[[袋熊果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eustrephus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*60. '''[[异蕊草属]]'''　'''''Thysanotus''''' R. Br.
*61. '''[[多须草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lomandra'''''|i}} Labill.
*62. '''[[天门冬属]]'''　'''''Asparagus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叶门冬属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elide'''''|i}} Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[武竹属]]''' {{Sm|(拟天门冬属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Protasparagus'''''|i}} Oberm.
*63. '''[[雾冰玉属]]''' {{Sm|(毛子草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eriospermum'''''|i}} Jacq. ex Willd.
*64. '''[[球子草属]]'''　'''''Peliosanthes''''' Andrews
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮球子草属]]'''　'''''Bulbospermum''''' Blume
*65. '''[[山麦冬属]]'''　'''''Liriope''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[禾叶山麦冬属]]'''　'''''Globeria''''' Raf.
*66. '''[[沿阶草属]]'''　'''''Ophiopogon''''' Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[俞莲属]]'''　'''''Yuolirion''''' Tang & F. T. Wang
*67. '''[[熊丝兰属]]''' {{Sm|(诺林那属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nolina'''''|i}} Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木熊兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roulinia'''''|i}} Brongn.
*68. '''[[猬丝兰属]]''' {{Sm|(锯齿龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dasylirion'''''|i}} Zucc.
*69. '''[[酒瓶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Beaucarnea'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[砾丝兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calibanus'''''|i}} Rose
*70. '''[[白穗花属]]'''　'''''Speirantha''''' Baker
*71. '''[[铃兰属]]'''　'''''Convallaria''''' L.
*72. '''[[吉祥草属]]'''　'''''Reineckea''''' Kunth
*73. '''[[蜘蛛抱蛋属]]'''　'''''Aspidistra''''' Ker Gawl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花蜘蛛抱蛋属]]'''　'''''Colania''''' Gagnep.
*74. '''[[万年青属]]'''　'''''Rohdea''''' Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[开口箭属]]'''　'''''Campylandra''''' Baker
*75. '''[[长柱开口箭属]]'''　'''''Tupistra''''' Ker Gawl.
*76. '''[[舞鹤草属]]'''　'''''Maianthemum''''' F. H. Wigg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫花鹿药属]]'''　'''''Jocaste''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西南鹿药属]]'''　'''''Medora''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管花鹿药属]]''' {{Sm|(少穗花属)}}　'''''Oligobotrya''''' Baker
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹿药属]]'''　'''''Smilacina''''' Desf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美舞鹤草属]]'''　'''''Styrandra''''' Raf.
*77. '''[[竹根七属]]'''　'''''Disporopsis''''' Hance
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[散斑竹根七属]]'''　'''''Aulisconema''''' Hua
*78. '''[[异黄精属]]'''　'''''Heteropolygonatum''''' M. N. Tamura & Ogisu
*79. '''[[黄精属]]'''　'''''Polygonatum''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二苞黄精属]]'''　'''''Periballanthus''''' Franch. & Sav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对叶黄精属]]'''　'''''Siphyalis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶黄精属]]'''　'''''Troxilanthes''''' Raf.
*80. '''[[夏须草属]]'''　'''''Theropogon''''' Maxim.
*81. '''[[龙血树属]]'''　'''''Dracaena''''' Vand. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星点木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nemampsis'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剑叶木属]]'''　'''''Pleomele''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虎尾兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sansevieria'''''|i}} Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长花龙血树属]]'''　'''''Terminalis''''' Medik.
*82. '''[[大王桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Danaidia'''''|i}} Link
*83. '''[[假叶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruscus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马舌桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Platyruscus'''''|i}} A. P. Khokhr. & V. N. Tikhom.
==86. 棕榈目　Arecales==
===273. [[鼓槌草科]]　Dasypogonaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[鼓槌草属]]''' {{Sm|(毛瓣花属，多须草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dasypogon'''''|i}} R. Br.
===274. [[棕榈科]]　Arecaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[鳞皮椰属]]''' {{Sm|(刺果椰属，厚壁椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eugeissona'''''|i}} Griff.
*2. '''[[酒椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raphia'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*3. '''[[鳞果棕属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞果榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lepidocaryum'''''|i}} Mart.
*4. '''[[湿地棕属]]''' {{Sm|(湿地榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mauritia'''''|i}} L. f.
*5. '''[[南美棕属]]''' {{Sm|(南美榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mauritiella'''''|i}} Burret
*6. '''[[蚁藤属]]''' {{Sm|(蚁棕属，柯莎藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Korthalsia'''''|i}} Blume
*7. '''[[蛇皮果属]]'''　'''''Salacca''''' Reinw.
*8. '''[[金刺椰属]]''' {{Sm|(马来刺椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pigafetta'''''|i}} (Blume) Becc.
*9. '''[[西谷椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Metroxylon'''''|i}} Rottb.
*10. '''[[钩叶藤属]]'''　'''''Plectocomia''''' Mart. ex Schult. & Schult. f.
*11. '''[[多鳞藤属]]'''　'''''Myrialepis''''' Becc.
*12. '''[[编织藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plectocomiopsis'''''|i}} Becc.
*13. '''[[省藤属]]'''　'''''Calamus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄藤属]]'''　'''''Daemonorops''''' Blume
*14. '''[[水椰属]]'''　'''''Nypa''''' Steck
*15. '''[[琼棕属]]'''　'''''Chuniophoenix''''' Burret
*16. '''[[寒棕属]]''' {{Sm|(阿富汗棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nannorrhops'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*17. '''[[泰棕属]]''' {{Sm|(泰国棕属，卡里多棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kerriodoxa'''''|i}} J. Dransf.
*18. '''[[鱼尾葵属]]''' {{Sm|(鱼尾椰属)}}　'''''Caryota''''' L.
*19. '''[[瓦理棕属]]''' {{Sm|(瓦理椰属，小堇棕属)}}　'''''Wallichia''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三药瓦理棕属]]'''　'''''Asraoa''''' J. Joseph
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琴叶瓦理棕属]]'''　'''''Harina''''' Buch.-Ham.
*20. '''[[桄榔属]]''' {{Sm|(南椰属)}}　'''''Arenga''''' Labill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双籽棕属]]''' {{Sm|(双子棕属)}}　'''''Didymosperma''''' H. Wendl. & Drude ex Hook. f.
*21. '''[[贝叶棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corypha'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高大贝叶棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gembanga'''''|i}} Blume
*22. '''[[红脉葵属]]''' {{Sm|(红脉榈属，彩叶棕属，黄脉榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Latania'''''|i}} Comm. ex Juss.
*23. '''[[巨子棕属]]''' {{Sm|(大实榈属，海椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lodoicea'''''|i}} Comm. ex DC.
*24. '''[[垂裂棕属]]''' {{Sm|(毛果榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Borassodendron'''''|i}} Becc.
*25. '''[[糖棕属]]''' {{Sm|(树头榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Borassus'''''|i}} L.
*26. '''[[霸王棕属]]''' {{Sm|(霸王榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bismarckia'''''|i}} Hildebr. & H. Wendl.
*27. '''[[翅核棕属]]''' {{Sm|(马吉纳拉棕属，翅果棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Satranala'''''|i}} J. Dransf. & Beentje
*28. '''[[尼罗棕属]]''' {{Sm|(阔叶棕属，阔叶榈属，北非棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Medemia'''''|i}} Württemb. ex H. Wendl.
*29. '''[[叉茎棕属]]''' {{Sm|(叉干棕属，分枝榈属，羌果棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hyphaene'''''|i}} Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[底比斯叉茎棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Douma'''''|i}} Poir.
*30. '''[[菜棕属]]''' {{Sm|(箬棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sabal'''''|i}} Adans.
*31. '''[[秘鲁棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Itaya'''''|i}} H. E. Moore
*32. '''[[根刺棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryosophila'''''|i}} Blume
*33. '''[[龟果棕属]]''' {{Sm|(龟果榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chelyocarpus'''''|i}} Dammer
*34. '''[[长刺棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trithrinax'''''|i}} Mart.
*35. '''[[单心棕属]]''' {{Sm|(单雌棕属，洪都拉斯棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schippia'''''|i}} Burret
*36. '''[[海地棕属]]''' {{Sm|(轮刺棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Zombia'''''|i}} L. H. Bailey
*37. '''[[银棕属]]''' {{Sm|(银叶棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Coccothrinax'''''|i}} Sarg.
*38. '''[[豆棕属]]''' {{Sm|(白果棕属，白棕榈属，扇葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Thrinax'''''|i}} Sw.
*39. '''[[白豆棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucothrinax'''''|i}} C. Lewis & Zona
*40. '''[[海枣属]]''' {{Sm|(刺葵属，针葵属)}}　'''''Phoenix''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银海枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elate'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锡兰海枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zelonops'''''|i}} Raf.
*41. '''[[丝葵属]]''' {{Sm|(银丝棕属，华盛顿棕属，裙棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Washingtonia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*42. '''[[蜡棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Copernicia'''''|i}} Mart. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白蜡棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coryphomia'''''|i}} Rojas Acosta
*43. '''[[金棕属]]''' {{Sm|(太平洋棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pritchardia'''''|i}} Seem. & H. Wendl. ex H. Wendl.
*44. '''[[矮棕属]]''' {{Sm|(欧洲棕属，丛榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chamaerops'''''|i}} L.
*45. '''[[石山棕属]]'''　'''''Guihaia''''' J. Dransf., S. K. Lee & F. N. Wei
*46. '''[[棕竹属]]'''　'''''Rhapis''''' L. f. ex Aiton
*47. '''[[棕榈属]]'''　'''''Trachycarpus''''' H. Wendl.
*48. '''[[针棕属]]''' {{Sm|(棘叶榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhapidophyllum'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*49. '''[[瓶棕属]]''' {{Sm|(桶棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Colpothrinax'''''|i}} Griseb. & H. Wendl.
*50. '''[[石棕属]]''' {{Sm|(岩榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brahea'''''|i}} Mart. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岛石棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erythea'''''|i}} S. Watson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长穗棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glaucothea'''''|i}} O. F. Cook
*51. '''[[沼地棕属]]''' {{Sm|(沼泽棕属，棕葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acoelorraphe'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*52. '''[[锯棕属]]''' {{Sm|(锯箬棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Serenoa'''''|i}} Benth. & Hook. f.
*53. '''[[蒲葵属]]'''　'''''Livistona''''' R. Br.
*54. '''[[菱叶棕属]]''' {{Sm|(泰氏榈属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Johannesteijsmannia'''''|i}} H. E. Moore
*55. '''[[帽棕属]]'''　'''''Lanonia''''' A. J. Hend. & C. D. Bacon
*56. '''[[轴榈属]]'''　'''''Licuala''''' Wurmb
*57. '''[[叉序蒲葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saribus'''''|i}} Blume
*58. '''[[樱桃椰属]]''' {{Sm|(葫芦椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pseudophoenix'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Sarg.
*59. '''[[象牙椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(象牙棕属，象牙椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phytelephas'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*60. '''[[蜡椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceroxylon'''''|i}} Bonpl. ex DC.
*61. '''[[青铜椰属]]''' {{Sm|(昆士兰椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oraniopsis'''''|i}} (Becc.) J. Dransf., A. K. Irvine & N. W. Uhl
*62. '''[[国王椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ravenea'''''|i}} C. D. Bouché
*63. '''[[异柱椰属]]''' {{Sm|(维细尼椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Wettinia'''''|i}} Poepp. ex Endl.
*64. '''[[网子椰属]]''' {{Sm|(金椰属，网实椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dictyocaryum'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*65. '''[[根柱椰属]]''' {{Sm|(南美椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Iriartea'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*66. '''[[高跷椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Socratea'''''|i}} H. Karst.
*67. '''[[酒瓶椰属]]''' {{Sm|(酒瓶椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hyophorbe'''''|i}} Gaertn.
*68. '''[[巧椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Synechanthus'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*69. '''[[雨竹椰属]]''' {{Sm|(文氏椰属，单梗苞椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Wendlandiella'''''|i}} Dammer
*70. '''[[石崖椰属]]''' {{Sm|(加西亚椰属，根锥椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gaussia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*71. '''[[竹节椰属]]''' {{Sm|(玲珑椰子属，茶马椰子属，竹棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chamaedorea'''''|i}} Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[袖珍椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Collinia'''''|i}} (Liebm. ex Mart.) Liebm. ex Oerst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翠玉椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kinetostigma'''''|i}} Dammer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鲸尾椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kunthia'''''|i}} Bonpl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香竹节椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Morenia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[富贵椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stachyophorbe'''''|i}} (Liebm. ex Mart.) Liebm. ex Klotzsch
*72. '''[[大王椰属]]''' {{Sm|(王棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Roystonea'''''|i}} O. F. Cook
*73. '''[[窗孔椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Reinhardtia'''''|i}} Liebm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小窗孔椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malortiea'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*74. '''[[顶环椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(贝加利椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Beccariophoenix'''''|i}} Jum. & H. Perrier
*75. '''[[南非椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(潘道兰椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jubaeopsis'''''|i}} Becc.
*76. '''[[森林椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(多体椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Voanioala'''''|i}} J. Dransf.
*77. '''[[直叶椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(帝王椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Attalea'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orbignya'''''|i}} Mart. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛油椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(迤逦椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Scheelea'''''|i}} H. Karst.
*78. '''[[智利椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(蜜棕属，蜜棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jubaea'''''|i}} Kunth
*79. '''[[果冻椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(布迪椰子属，布帝亚椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Butia'''''|i}} (Becc.) Becc.
*80. '''[[女王椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(金山葵属，西雅椰子属，皇后葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Syagrus'''''|i}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小王椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arikuryroba'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barbosa'''''|i}} Becc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[敝果椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lytocaryum'''''|i}} Toledo
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小穴椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Microcoelum'''''|i}} Burret & Potztal
*81. '''[[香花椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Allagoptera'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多蕊椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Polyandrococos'''''|i}} Barb. Rodr.
*82. '''[[椰子属]]'''　'''''Cocos''''' L.
*83. '''[[脊果椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(帕拉久巴椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Parajubaea'''''|i}} Burret
*84. '''[[油棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elaeis'''''|i}} Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲油棕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corozo'''''|i}} Jacq. ex Giseke
*85. '''[[刺茎椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(刺干椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acrocomia'''''|i}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺瓶椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(膨茎刺椰子属，刺瓶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gastrococos'''''|i}} Morales
*86. '''[[椰藤属]]''' {{Sm|(孔带椰子属，美洲藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Desmoncus'''''|i}} Mart.
*87. '''[[刺叶椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aiphanes'''''|i}} Willd.
*88. '''[[桃果椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(桃棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bactris'''''|i}} Jacq. ex Scop.
*89. '''[[星果椰子属]]''' {{Sm|(星果刺椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Astrocaryum'''''|i}} G. Mey.
*90. '''[[毒椰属]]''' {{Sm|(喙苞椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Orania'''''|i}} Zipp.
*91. '''[[凤尾椰属]]''' {{Sm|(银叶凤尾椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pelagodoxa'''''|i}} Becc.
*92. '''[[白叶椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sommieria'''''|i}} Becc.
*93. '''[[袖苞椰属]]''' {{Sm|(袖棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Manicaria'''''|i}} Gaertn.
*94. '''[[星蕊椰属]]''' {{Sm|(羽叶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Welfia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*95. '''[[丽椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pholidostachys'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Hook. f.
*96. '''[[肖椰子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calyptronoma'''''|i}} Griseb.
*97. '''[[草椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calyptrogyne'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*98. '''[[鸡爪椰属]]''' {{Sm|(单叶椰属，单叶棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Asterogyne'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*99. '''[[苇椰属]]''' {{Sm|(唇苞椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Geonoma'''''|i}} Willd.
*100. '''[[薄鞘椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hyospathe'''''|i}} Mart.
*101. '''[[酒果椰属]]''' {{Sm|(酒实椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oenocarpus'''''|i}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油用酒果椰属]]''' {{Sm|(杰森椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jessenia'''''|i}} H. Karst.
*102. '''[[菜椰属]]''' {{Sm|(纤叶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Euterpe'''''|i}} Mart.
*103. '''[[山菜椰属]]''' {{Sm|(山甘蓝椰属，粉轴椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Prestoea'''''|i}} Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大陆山菜椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oreodoxa'''''|i}} Willd.
*104. '''[[彩果椰属]]''' {{Sm|(彩果棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Iguanura'''''|i}} Blume
*105. '''[[泥刺椰属]]''' {{Sm|(尼梆刺椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oncosperma'''''|i}} Blume
*106. '''[[华丽刺椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deckenia'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Seem.
*107. '''[[刺椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthophoenix'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*108. '''[[猩红椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtostachys'''''|i}} Blume
*109. '''[[毛梗椰属]]''' {{Sm|(尼可巴椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bentinckia'''''|i}} Berry ex Roxb.
*110. '''[[斜柱椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clinostigma'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*111. '''[[槟榔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Areca'''''|i}} L.
*112. '''[[密穗槟榔属]]''' {{Sm|(南格槟榔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nenga'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*113. '''[[山槟榔属]]'''　'''''Pinanga''''' Blume
*114. '''[[水柱椰属]]''' {{Sm|(丛生槟榔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hydriastele'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长瓣槟榔属]]''' {{Sm|(尖瓣椰属，沟叶椰属，沟叶棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gronophyllum'''''|i}} Scheff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单茎椰属]]''' {{Sm|(单生槟榔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gulubia'''''|i}} Becc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管被椰属]]''' {{Sm|(摩鹿加椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Siphokentia'''''|i}} Burret
*115. '''[[飓风椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dictyosperma'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*116. '''[[龙轴椰属]]''' {{Sm|(棒椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhopaloblaste'''''|i}} Scheff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙杖椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ptychoraphis'''''|i}} Becc.
*117. '''[[多梗苞椰属]]''' {{Sm|(梅索拉椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Masoala'''''|i}} Jum.
*118. '''[[玛瑙椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marojejya'''''|i}} Humbert
*119. '''[[马岛椰属]]''' {{Sm|(马岛棕属，荻棕属，岱普椰子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dypsis'''''|i}} Noronha ex Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[散尾葵属]]''' {{Sm|(黄椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chrysalidocarpus'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸳鸯椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macrophloga'''''|i}} Becc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三角椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neodypsis'''''|i}} Baill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小黄椰属]]''' {{Sm|(安博沙椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neophloga'''''|i}} Baill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簇叶椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phloga'''''|i}} Noronha ex Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐基椰属]]''' {{Sm|(马岛椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Vonitra'''''|i}} Becc.
*120. '''[[肾子刺椰属]]''' {{Sm|(塞岛刺椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nephrosperma'''''|i}} Balf. f.
*121. '''[[麒麟刺椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phoenicophorium'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*122. '''[[牵索刺椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roscheria'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Balf. f.
*123. '''[[竹马刺椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Verschaffeltia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*124. '''[[岩槟榔属]]''' {{Sm|(岩山椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Loxococcus'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*125. '''[[异苞椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heterospathe'''''|i}} Scheff.
*126. '''[[手杖椰属]]''' {{Sm|(单穗棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Linospadix'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*127. '''[[白轴椰属]]''' {{Sm|(穗序椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Laccospadix'''''|i}} Drude & H. Wendl.
*128. '''[[豪爵椰属]]''' {{Sm|(荷威椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Howea'''''|i}} Becc.
*129. '''[[瓶椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyphokentia'''''|i}} Brongn.
*130. '''[[硬果椰属]]''' {{Sm|(木果椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carpoxylon'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*131. '''[[琉球椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Satakentia'''''|i}} H. E. Moore
*132. '''[[纵花椰属]]''' {{Sm|(斯托克椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neoveitchia'''''|i}} Becc.
*133. '''[[小山椰属]]''' {{Sm|(小山槟榔属，鳞轴椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lepidorrhachis'''''|i}} (H. Wendl. & Drude) O. F. Cook
*134. '''[[大山椰属]]''' {{Sm|(伞椰属，直叶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hedyscepe'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*135. '''[[胡刷椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhopalostylis'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*136. '''[[雕核椰属]]''' {{Sm|(肿瘤椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyphosperma'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Hook. f.
*137. '''[[彩颈椰属]]''' {{Sm|(喀里多尼亚椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Basselinia'''''|i}} Vieill.
*138. '''[[菱子椰属]]''' {{Sm|(瓦奴亚椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Physokentia'''''|i}} Becc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玫序菱子椰属]]''' {{Sm|(棱枝椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Goniocladus'''''|i}} Burret
*139. '''[[膨颈椰属]]''' {{Sm|(加罗林椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyphophoenix'''''|i}} H. Wendl. ex Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银椰属]]''' {{Sm|(维罗尼亚椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Veillonia'''''|i}} H. E. Moore
*140. '''[[隔药椰属]]''' {{Sm|(裂柄椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Burretiokentia'''''|i}} Pic. Serm.
*141. '''[[隐萼椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calyptrocalyx'''''|i}} Blume
*142. '''[[拱叶椰属]]''' {{Sm|(马来椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Actinorhytis'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
*143. '''[[叉序椰属]]''' {{Sm|(叉叶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Actinokentia'''''|i}} Dammer
*144. '''[[假槟榔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Archontophoenix'''''|i}} H. Wendl. & Drude
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔叶假槟榔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Loroma'''''|i}} O. F. Cook
*145. '''[[喷焰椰属]]''' {{Sm|(茶梅椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chambeyronia'''''|i}} Vieill. ex Brongn. & Gris
*146. '''[[橄榄椰属]]''' {{Sm|(肯托椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kentiopsis'''''|i}} Brongn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗壮橄榄椰属]]''' {{Sm|(粗壮椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mackeea'''''|i}} H. E. Moore
*147. '''[[石坛椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ponapea'''''|i}} Becc.
*148. '''[[皱子椰属]]''' {{Sm|(射叶椰子属，射叶椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ptychosperma'''''|i}} Labill.
*149. '''[[圣诞椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adonidia'''''|i}} Becc.
*150. '''[[矛椰属]]''' {{Sm|(仗椰属，巴拉卡椰属，杖椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Balaka'''''|i}} Becc.
*151. '''[[斐济椰属]]''' {{Sm|(圣诞椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Veitchia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*152. '''[[黑狐尾椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Normanbya'''''|i}} F. Muell. ex Becc.
*153. '''[[北澳椰属]]''' {{Sm|(木匠椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carpentaria'''''|i}} Becc.
*154. '''[[狐尾椰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wodyetia'''''|i}} A. K. Irvine
*155. '''[[林鱼椰属]]''' {{Sm|(木果椰属，木皮椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Drymophloeus'''''|i}} Zipp.
*156. '''[[三叉羽椰属]]''' {{Sm|(布拉索椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brassiophoenix'''''|i}} Burret
*157. '''[[皱果椰属]]''' {{Sm|(襞果椰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ptychococcus'''''|i}} Becc.
==87. 鸭跖草目　Commelinales==
===275. [[鸭跖草科]]　Commelinaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[水竹叶属]]'''　'''''Murdannia''''' Royle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细柄水竹叶属]]'''　'''''Dilasia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裸花水竹叶属]]'''　'''''Ditelesia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细竹篙草属]]'''　'''''Phaeneilema''''' G. Brückn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮水竹叶属]]'''　'''''Streptylis''''' Raf.
*2. '''[[三瓣果属]]'''　'''''Tricarpelema''''' J. K. Morton
*3. '''[[聚花草属]]'''　'''''Floscopa''''' Lour.
*4. '''[[鸭跖草属]]'''　'''''Commelina''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[波缘鸭跖草属]]'''　'''''Ananthopus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花鸭跖草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dirtea'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[块根鸭跖草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erxlebia'''''|i}} Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶鸭跖草属]]'''　'''''Spathodithyros''''' Hassk.
*5. '''[[杜若属]]'''　'''''Pollia''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长花枝杜若属]]'''　'''''Aclisia''''' E. Mey. ex C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花杜若属]]'''　'''''Lamprocarpus''''' Blume ex Schult. & Schult. f.
*6. '''[[钩毛子草属]]''' {{Sm|(毛果竹叶菜属)}}　'''''Rhopalephora''''' Hassk.
*7. '''[[竹叶菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aneilema'''''|i}} R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤道竹叶菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amelina'''''|i}} C. B. Clarke
*8. '''[[网籽草属]]'''　'''''Dictyospermum''''' Wight
*9. '''[[彩杜若属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Palisota'''''|i}} Rchb. ex Endl.
*10. '''[[竹叶子属]]'''　'''''Streptolirion''''' Edgew.
*11. '''[[竹叶吉祥草属]]'''　'''''Spatholirion''''' Ridl.
*12. '''[[银波草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Uleopsis'''''|i}} Fedde
*13. '''[[鹤蕊花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochliostema'''''|i}} Lem.
*14. '''[[绒毡草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siderasis'''''|i}} Raf.
*15. '''[[鸳鸯草属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝姜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dichorisandra'''''|i}} J. C. Mikan
*16. '''[[假紫万年青属]]'''　'''''Belosynapsis''''' Hassk.
*17. '''[[蓝耳草属]]'''　'''''Cyanotis''''' D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四孔草属]]'''　'''''Siphostima''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞘苞花属]]'''　'''''Tonningia''''' Neck. ex A. Juss.
*18. '''[[孔药花属]]'''　'''''Porandra''''' D. Y. Hong
*19. '''[[穿鞘花属]]'''　'''''Amischotolype''''' Hassk.
*20. '''[[孀泪花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tinantia'''''|v}} Scheidw.
*21. '''[[银瓣花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Weldenia'''''|i}} Schult. f.
*22. '''[[锦竹草属]]''' {{Sm|(洋竹草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Callisia'''''|v}} Loefl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香锦竹草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rectanthera'''''|i}} O. Deg.
*23. '''[[新娘草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gibasis'''''|i}} Raf.
*24. '''[[紫露草属]]''' {{Sm|(紫万年青属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tradescantia'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦竹梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Campelia'''''|i}} Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛萼紫露草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leiandra'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫万年青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhoeo'''''|v}} Hance
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫竹梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Setcreasea'''''|i}} K. Schum. & Syd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[吊竹梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zebrina'''''|v}} Schnizl.
===276. [[田葱科]]　Philydraceae Link===
*1. '''[[田葱属]]'''　'''''Philydrum''''' Banks & Sol. ex Gaertn.
===277. [[雨久花科]]　Pontederiaceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[沼车前属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heteranthera'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花问荆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hydrothrix'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*2. '''[[立凤莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cabanisia'''''|i}} Klotzsch ex Schltdl.
*3. '''[[凤眼莲属]]''' {{Sm|(凤眼蓝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eichhornia'''''|v}} Kunth
*4. '''[[雨久花属]]'''　'''''Monochoria''''' C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸭舌草属]]'''　'''''Gomphima''''' Raf.
*5. '''[[梭鱼草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pontederia'''''|i}} L.
===278. [[血草科]]　Haemodoraceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[鸠尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xiphidium'''''|i}} Aubl.
*2. '''[[折扇草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wachendorfia'''''|i}} Burm.
*3. '''[[袋鼠爪属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anigozanthos'''''|i}} Labill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄袋鼠爪属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anigosia'''''|i}} Salisb.
==88. 姜目　Zingiberales==
===279. [[鹤望兰科]]　Strelitziaceae Hutch.===
*1. '''[[旅人蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ravenala'''''|i}} Adans.
*2. '''[[鹤望兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Strelitzia'''''|i}} Banks
===280. [[兰花蕉科]]　Lowiaceae Ridl.===
*1. '''[[兰花蕉属]]'''　'''''Orchidantha''''' N. E. Br.
===281. [[蝎尾蕉科]]　Heliconiaceae Vines===
*1. '''[[蝎尾蕉属]]''' {{Sm|(赫蕉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Heliconia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岛蝎尾蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heliconiopsis'''''|i}} Miq.
===282. [[芭蕉科]]　Musaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[芭蕉属]]'''　'''''Musa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Karkandela'''''|i}} Raf.
*2. '''[[地涌金莲属]]'''　'''''Musella''''' (Franch.) C. Y. Wu ex H. W. Li
*3. '''[[象腿蕉属]]'''　'''''Ensete''''' Horan.
===283. [[美人蕉科]]　Cannaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[美人蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Canna'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柔瓣美人蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eurystylus'''''|i}} Bouché
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉美人蕉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xyphostylis'''''|i}} Raf.
===284. [[竹芋科]]　Marantaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[肉柊叶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcophrynium'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*2. '''[[翅果竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thaumatococcus'''''|i}} Benth.
*3. '''[[叠苞竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calathea'''''|i}} G. Mey.
*4. '''[[单室竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monotagma'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*5. '''[[肖竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Goeppertia'''''|i}} Nees
*6. '''[[多穗竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pleiostachya'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*7. '''[[伞竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ischnosiphon'''''|i}} K&ouml;rn.
*8. '''[[水竹芋属]]''' {{Sm|(再力花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Thalia'''''|i}} L.
*9. '''[[柊叶属]]'''　'''''Phrynium''''' Willd.
*10. '''[[竹叶蕉属]]'''　'''''Donax''''' Lour.
*11. '''[[穗花柊叶属]]'''　'''''Stachyphrynium''''' K. Schum.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖苞柊叶属]]'''　'''''Phyllodes''''' Lour.
*12. '''[[芦竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marantochloa'''''|i}} Brongn. ex Gris
*13. '''[[竹芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maranta'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[栉花竹芋属]]''' {{Sm|(锦竹芋属，栉花芋属，卧花竹芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ctenanthe'''''|i}} Eichler
*15. '''[[短筒竹芋属]]''' {{Sm|(红里蕉属，红背竹芋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stromanthe'''''|i}} Sond.
===285. [[闭鞘姜科]]　Costaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[喇叭姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chamaecostus'''''|i}} C. D. Specht & D. W. Stev.
*2. '''[[腋花姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monocostus'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*3. '''[[丽唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dimerocostus'''''|i}} Kuntze
*4. '''[[宝塔姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Costus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇丽宝塔姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cadalvena'''''|i}} Fenzl
*5. '''[[独叶姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Paracostus'''''|i}} C. D. Specht
*6. '''[[闭鞘姜属]]'''　'''''Hellenia''''' Retz.
*7. '''[[小唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tapeinochilos'''''|i}} Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑小唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tubutubua'''''|i}} T. Post & Kuntze

===286. [[姜科]]　Zingiberaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[管唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siphonochilus'''''|i}} J. M. Wood & Franks
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东非管唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cienkowskiella'''''|i}} Y. K. Kam
*2. '''[[角果姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siamanthus'''''|i}} K. Larsen & Mood
*3. '''[[短唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Burbidgea'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*4. '''[[垂序姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pleuranthodium'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) R. M. Sm.
*5. '''[[蝎尾姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Riedelia'''''|i}} Oliv.
*6. '''[[长果姜属]]'''　'''''Siliquamomum''''' Baill.
*7. '''[[山姜属]]'''　'''''Alpinia''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑果山姜属]]'''　'''''Allagas''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[节鞭山姜属]]'''　'''''Strobidia''''' Miq.
*8. '''[[豆蔻属]]'''　'''''Amomum''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地豆蔻属]]''' {{Sm|(拟豆蔻属)}}　'''''Elettariopsis''''' Baker
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟豆蔻属]]'''　'''''Paramomum''''' S. Q. Tong
*9. '''[[椒蔻属]]''' {{Sm|(非洲豆蔻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aframomum'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*10. '''[[绿豆蔻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elettaria'''''|i}} Maton
*11. '''[[艳苞姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Renealmia'''''|i}} L. f.
*12. '''[[草果属]]'''　'''''Lanxangia''''' M. F. Newman & &Scaron;korni&#269;k.
*13. '''[[毛瓣山姜属]]'''　'''''Buekia''''' Giseke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垂叶山姜属]]'''　'''''Catimbium''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华山姜属]]'''　'''''Monocystis''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[偏穗姜属]]'''　'''''Plagiostachys''''' Ridl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[艳山姜属]]'''　'''''Zerumbet''''' J. C. Wendl.
*14. '''[[砂仁属]]'''　'''''Wurfbainia''''' Giseke
*15. '''[[野草果属]]''' {{Sm|(假砂仁属)}}　'''''Meistera''''' Giseke
*16. '''[[大豆蔻属]]'''　'''''Hornstedtia''''' Retz.
*17. '''[[茴香砂仁属]]'''　'''''Etlingera''''' Giseke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火炬姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nicolaia'''''|i}} Horan.
*18. '''[[红山姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guillainia'''''|i}} Vieill.
*19. '''[[细管姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leptosolena'''''|i}} C. Presl
*20. '''[[须叶姜属]]''' {{Sm|(法氏姜属)}}　'''''Vanoverberghia''''' Merr.
*21. '''[[舞花姜属]]'''　'''''Globba''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛舞花姜属]]'''　'''''Ceratanthera''''' Hornem.
*22. '''[[玉凤姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gagnepainia'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*23. '''[[兰花姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hemiorchis'''''|i}} Kurz
*24. '''[[大苞姜属]]'''　'''''Monolophus''''' Wall. ex Endl.
*25. '''[[苞叶姜属]]'''　'''''Pyrgophyllum''''' (Gagnep.) T. L. Wu & Z. Y. Chen
*26. '''[[姜黄属]]'''　'''''Curcuma''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐姜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hitchenia'''''|i}} Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[土田七属]]'''　'''''Stahlianthus''''' Kuntze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[莪术属]]'''　'''''Zedoaria''''' Raf.
*27. '''[[距药姜属]]'''　'''''Cautleya''''' (Royle ex Benth. & Hook. f.) Hook. f.
*28. '''[[象牙参属]]'''　'''''Roscoea''''' Sm.
*29. '''[[直唇姜属]]'''　'''''Pommereschea''''' Wittm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短柄直唇姜属]]'''　'''''Croftia''''' King & Prain
*30. '''[[喙花姜属]]'''　'''''Rhynchanthus''''' Hook. f.
*31. '''[[窄唇姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Larsenianthus'''''|i}} W. J. Kress & Mood
*32. '''[[姜花属]]'''　'''''Hedychium''''' J. Koenig
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短唇姜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachychilum'''''|i}} (R. Br. ex Wall.) Petersen
*33. '''[[拟姜黄属]]'''　'''''Curcumorpha''''' A. S. Rao & D. M. Verma
*34. '''[[凹唇姜属]]'''　'''''Boesenbergia''''' Kuntze
*35. '''[[山柰属]]'''　'''''Kaempferia''''' L.
*36. '''[[角山柰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cornukaempferia'''''|i}} Mood & K. Larsen
*37. '''[[姜属]]'''　'''''Zingiber''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红球姜属]]'''　'''''Dieterichia''''' Giseke
*38. '''[[列苞姜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Distichochlamys'''''|i}} M. F. Newman
==89. 禾本目　Poales==
===287. [[香蒲科]]　Typhaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[黑三棱属]]'''　'''''Sparganium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮黑三棱属]]'''　'''''Platanaria''''' Gray
*2. '''[[香蒲属]]'''　'''''Typha''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水烛属]]'''　'''''Massula''''' Dulac
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小香蒲属]]'''　'''''Rohrbachia''''' (Kronf. ex Riedl) Mavrodiev
===288. [[凤梨科]]　Bromeliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[小花凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(布洛凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brocchinia'''''|i}} Schult. f. ex Schult. & Schult. f.
*2. '''[[点头凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Connellia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*3. '''[[光彩凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lindmania'''''|i}} Mez
*4. '''[[雨蛙凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(伞凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Glomeropitcairnia'''''|i}} (Mez) Mez
*5. '''[[粉叶凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(嘉宝凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Catopsis'''''|i}} Griseb.
*6. '''[[星花凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(果子蔓属，擎天凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Guzmania'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[镶纹凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Massangea'''''|i}} &Eacute;. Morren
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[禾叶凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sodiroa'''''|i}} André
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匣叶凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thecophyllum'''''|i}} André
*7. '''[[奇萼凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Racinaea'''''|i}} M. A. Spencer & L. B. Sm.
*8. '''[[铁兰属]]''' {{Sm|(花凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tillandsia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[褶丝凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anoplophytum'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔺凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bonapartea'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[松萝凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dendropogon'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藓凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diaphoranthema'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[猴凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phytarrhiza'''''|i}} Vis.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[精灵凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pityrophyllum'''''|i}} Beer
*9. '''[[丝瓣凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(帝王凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Alcantarea'''''|i}} (&Eacute;. Morren ex Mez) Harms
*10. '''[[鹦哥凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(丽穗凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Vriesea'''''|i}} Lindl.
*11. '''[[丽穗凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lutheria'''''|i}} Barfuss & W. Till
*12. '''[[夜花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Werauhia'''''|i}} J. R. Grant
*13. '''[[新妇凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bakerantha'''''|i}} L. B. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雪绒凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Niveophyllum'''''|i}} Matuda
*14. '''[[猬凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(华烛之典属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hechtia'''''|i}} Klotzsch
*15. '''[[聚星凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Navia'''''|i}} Mart. ex Schult. f.
*16. '''[[艳红凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(翠凤草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pitcairnia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[煌序凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lamproconus'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爵床凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(异翠凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pepinia'''''|i}} Brongn. ex André
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[焰柱凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phlomostachys'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[艳爵凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Pitinia'''''|i}} Irvin ex Baskerv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西非凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Willrussellia'''''|i}} A. Chev.
*17. '''[[卷药凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fosterella'''''|i}} L. B. Sm.
*18. '''[[单鳞凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deuterocohnia'''''|i}} Mez
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺垫凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(亚菠萝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Abromeitiella'''''|i}} Mez
*19. '''[[矛凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Encholirium'''''|i}} Mart. ex Schult. & Schult. f.
*20. '''[[雀舌兰属]]''' {{Sm|(硬叶凤梨属，剑山属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dyckia'''''|i}} Schult. f.
*21. '''[[龙舌凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(皇后凤梨属，普亚属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Puya'''''|i}} Molina
*22. '''[[头花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Greigia'''''|i}} Regel
*23. '''[[束花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fascicularia'''''|i}} Mez
*24. '''[[红心凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bromelia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸢尾凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agallostachys'''''|i}} Beer
*25. '''[[凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ananas'''''|i}} Mill.
*26. '''[[姬凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(隐花凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cryptanthus'''''|i}} Otto & A. Dietr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花姬凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Madvigia'''''|i}} Liebm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虎斑姬凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pholidophyllum'''''|i}} Vis. ex Otto & A. Dietr.
*27. '''[[叶苞凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orthophytum'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石姬凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptanthopsis'''''|i}} Ule
*28. '''[[棒叶凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(芦状凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neoglaziovia'''''|i}} Mez
*29. '''[[刺穗凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(松球凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acanthostachys'''''|i}} Link, Klotzsch & Otto
*30. '''[[齿球凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Karawata'''''|i}} J. R. Maciel & G. M. Sousa
*31. '''[[松球凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chevaliera'''''|i}} Gaudich. ex Beer
*32. '''[[薄苞凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ronnbergia'''''|i}} &Eacute;. Morren & André
*33. '''[[水塔花属]]''' {{Sm|(红苞凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Billbergia'''''|i}} Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝎尾凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacyclia'''''|i}} Hoffmanns.
*34. '''[[丽苞凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(丽冠凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Quesnelia'''''|i}} Gaudich.
*35. '''[[尖萼凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(尖萼荷属，光萼荷属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aechmea'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长索凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriostax'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹰爪凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gravisia'''''|i}} Mez
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[晖日凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hoiriri'''''|i}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜻蜓凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hoplophytum'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珊瑚凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lamprococcus'''''|i}} Beer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[列花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Platyaechmea'''''|i}} (Baker) L. B. Sm. & W. J. Kress
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[葡萄凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podaechmea'''''|i}} (Mez) L. B. Sm. & W. J. Kress
*36. '''[[卷瓣凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(尔苏凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ursulaea'''''|i}} Read & Baensch
*37. '''[[鳞药凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Androlepis'''''|i}} Brongn. ex Houllet
*38. '''[[郁金凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Canistropsis'''''|i}} (Mez) Leme
*39. '''[[毛花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Edmundoa'''''|i}} Leme
*40. '''[[鸟巢凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nidularium'''''|i}} Lem.
*41. '''[[杯苞凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wittrockia'''''|i}} Lindm.
*42. '''[[彩叶凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(赖凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neoregelia'''''|i}} L. B. Sm.
*43. '''[[围苞凤梨属]]''' {{Sm|(心花凤梨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Canistrum'''''|i}} &Eacute;. Morren
*44. '''[[球花凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hohenbergia'''''|i}} Schult. f.
*45. '''[[豆凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Araeococcus'''''|i}} Brongn.
*46. '''[[塔序凤梨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Portea'''''|i}} Brongn. ex K. Koch
===289. [[黄眼草科]]　Xyridaceae C. Agardh===
*1. '''[[黄眼草属]]'''　'''''Xyris''''' Gronov. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[葱草属]]'''　'''''Synoliga''''' Raf.
===290. [[谷精草科]]　Eriocaulaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[谷精草属]]'''　'''''Eriocaulon''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无瓣谷精草属]]'''　'''''Leucocephala''''' Roxb.
*2. '''[[簪谷精属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Syngonanthus'''''|i}} Ruhland
*3. '''[[蓬谷精属]]''' {{Sm|(食虫谷精属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Paepalanthus'''''|i}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球谷精属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Actinocephalus'''''|i}} (K&ouml;rn.) Sano
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛扁谷精属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dupatya'''''|i}} Vell.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水谷精属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tonina'''''|i}} Aubl.
===291. [[花水藓科]]　Mayacaceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[花水藓属]]''' {{Sm|(苔草属，三蕊细叶草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mayaca'''''|v}} Aubl.
===292. [[灯芯草科]]　Juncaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[地杨梅属]]'''　'''''Luzula''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长阜地杨梅属]]'''　'''''Nemorinia''''' Fourr.
*2. '''[[灯芯草属]]''' {{Sm|(灯心草属)}}　'''''Juncus''''' L.
===293. [[莎草科]]　Cyperaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[石龙刍属]]''' {{Sm|(蒲草属)}}　'''''Lepironia''''' Pers.
*2. '''[[割鸡芒属]]'''　'''''Hypolytrum''''' Rich.
*3. '''[[擂鼓簕属]]''' {{Sm|(擂鼓艻属，擂鼓苈属)}}　'''''Mapania''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野长蒲属]]'''　'''''Thoracostachyum''''' Kurz
*4. '''[[珍珠茅属]]'''　'''''Scleria''''' P. J. Bergius
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高秆珍珠茅属]]'''　'''''Diaphora''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纤秆珍珠茅属]]'''　'''''Hypoporum''''' Nees
*5. '''[[裂颖茅属]]'''　'''''Diplacrum''''' R. Br.
*6. '''[[一本芒属]]''' {{Sm|(克拉莎属)}}　'''''Cladium''''' P. Browne
*7. '''[[黑莎草属]]'''　'''''Gahnia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爪哇黑莎草属]]'''　'''''Syziganthus''''' Steud.
*8. '''[[赤箭莎属]]'''　'''''Schoenus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长穗赤箭莎属]]'''　'''''Cyclocampe''''' Steud.
*9. '''[[三肋莎属]]'''　'''''Tricostularia''''' Nees ex Lehm.
*10. '''[[剑叶莎属]]'''　'''''Machaerina''''' Vahl
*11. '''[[鳞籽莎属]]'''　'''''Lepidosperma''''' Labill.
*12. '''[[刺子莞属]]'''　'''''Rhynchospora''''' Vahl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白鹭莞属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dichromena'''''|i}} Michx.
*13. '''[[扁穗草属]]''' {{Sm|(扁穗莞属)}}　'''''Blysmus''''' Panz. ex Schult.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[内蒙古扁穗草属]]'''　'''''Blysmopsis''''' Oteng-Yeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄鳞草属]]'''　'''''Leptolepis''''' Boeckeler
*14. '''[[蔺藨草属]]''' {{Sm|(针蔺属，毛莎草属)}}　'''''Trichophorum''''' Pers.
*15. '''[[藨草属]]'''　'''''Scirpus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佛焰苞藨草属]]'''　'''''Maximowicziella''''' A. P. Khokhr.
*16. '''[[羊胡子草属]]'''　'''''Eriophorum''''' L.
*17. '''[[薹草属]]''' {{Sm|(苔草属)}}　'''''Carex''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[曲囊薹草属]]'''　'''''Anithista''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[倍蕊薹属]]'''　'''''Diplocarex''''' Hayata
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三角薹草属]]'''　'''''Edritria''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白山薹草属]]'''　'''''Facolos''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长穗柄薹草属]]'''　'''''Forexeta''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北薹草属]]'''　'''''Genersichia''''' Heuff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异穗嵩草属]]'''　'''''Hemicarex''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚挺嵩草属]]'''　'''''Holmia''''' B&ouml;rner
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝兴薹草属]]'''　'''''Homalostachys''''' Boeckeler
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[嵩草属]]'''　'''''Kobresia''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丛薹草属]]'''　'''''Limivasculum''''' B&ouml;rner
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑穗薹草属]]'''　'''''Loxanisa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斜囊薹草属]]'''　'''''Loxotrema''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全囊二柱薹草属]]'''　'''''Neskiza''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全囊薹草属]]'''　'''''Olotrema''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉簪薹草属]]'''　'''''Onkerma''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[褐鞘薹草属]]'''　'''''Osculisa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽叶薹草属]]'''　'''''Pseudocarex''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二柱薹草属]]'''　'''''Vignea''''' P. Beauv. ex T. Lestib.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[砂地薹草属]]'''　'''''Vignidula''''' B&ouml;rner
*18. '''[[荸荠属]]'''　'''''Eleocharis''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[少花荸荠属]]'''　'''''Baeothryon''''' A. Dietr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贝壳叶荸荠属]]'''　'''''Chaetocyperus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[浮蔺属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Egleria'''''|i}} L. T. Eiten
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫果蔺属]]'''　'''''Eleogenus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛毛毡属]]'''　'''''Scirpidium''''' Nees
*19. '''[[球柱草属]]'''　'''''Bulbostylis''''' Kunth
*20. '''[[星穗莎属]]'''　'''''Actinoschoenus''''' Benth.
*21. '''[[棒拂草属]]'''　'''''Abildgaardia''''' Vahl
*22. '''[[飘拂草属]]'''　'''''Fimbristylis''''' Vahl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细叶飘拂草属]]'''　'''''Aplostemon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[起绒飘拂草属]]'''　'''''Echinolytrum''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四棱飘拂草属]]'''　'''''Mischospora''''' Boeckeler
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[畦畔飘拂草属]]'''　'''''Pogonostylis''''' Bertol.
*23. '''[[芙兰草属]]''' {{Sm|(毛瓣莎属，异花草属)}}　'''''Fuirena''''' Rottb.
*24. '''[[三棱草属]]'''　'''''Bolboschoenus''''' (Asch.) Palla
*25. '''[[大藨草属]]'''　'''''Actinoscirpus''''' (Ohwi) R. W. Haines & Lye
*26. '''[[水葱属]]'''　'''''Schoenoplectus''''' (Rchb.) Palla
*27. '''[[蔺水葱属]]'''　'''''Schoenoplectiella''''' Lye
*28. '''[[岩胡子草属]]'''　'''''Erioscirpus''''' Palla
*29. '''[[杯莎属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ficinia'''''|i}} Schrad.
*30. '''[[细莞属]]''' {{Sm|(等鳞藨草属)}}　'''''Isolepis''''' R. Br.
*31. '''[[莎草属]]'''　'''''Cyperus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[碱莎属]]'''　'''''Acorellus''''' Palla
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单头莎属]]'''　'''''Anosporum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅鳞莎属]]'''　'''''Courtoisina''''' Soják
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛轴莎草属]]'''　'''''Duval-jouvea''''' Palla
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多脉莎草属]]'''　'''''Eucyperus''''' Rikli
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细湖瓜草属]]'''　'''''Hypaelyptum''''' Vahl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水莎草属]]'''　'''''Juncellus''''' (Griseb.) C. B. Clarke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水蜈蚣属]]'''　'''''Kyllinga''''' Rottb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[湖瓜草属]]'''　'''''Lipocarpha''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[砖子苗属]]'''　'''''Mariscus''''' Vahl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[莎状砖子苗属]]'''　'''''Opetiola''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纸莎草属]]'''　'''''Papyrus''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扁莎属]]''' {{Sm|(扁莎草属)}}　'''''Pycreus''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海滨莎属]]'''　'''''Remirea''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华湖瓜草属]]'''　'''''Rikliella''''' J. Raynal
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密穗砖子苗属]]'''　'''''Sphaeromariscus''''' E. G. Camus
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[断节莎属]]'''　'''''Torulinium''''' Desv. ex Ham.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三穗湖瓜草属]]'''　'''''Tunga''''' Roxb.
===294. [[帚灯草科]]　Restionaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[竹灯草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elegia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[辉灯草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lamprocaulos'''''|i}} Mast.
*2. '''[[刺鳞草属]]'''　'''''Centrolepis''''' Labill.
*3. '''[[薄果草属]]'''　'''''Dapsilanthus''''' B. G. Briggs & L. A. S. Johnson
===295. [[须叶藤科]]　Flagellariaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[须叶藤属]]''' {{Sm|(鞭藤属)}}　'''''Flagellaria''''' L.
===296. [[禾本科]]　Poaceae Barnhart===
*1. '''[[囊稃竺属]]''' {{Sm|(囊稃竹属)}}　'''''Leptaspis''''' R. Br.
*2. '''[[皱稃草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ehrharta'''''|v}} Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球茎皱稃草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trochera'''''|v}} Rich.
*3. '''[[稻属]]'''　'''''Oryza''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裸粒稻属]]'''　'''''× Oryticum''''' C. P. Wang & S. H. Tang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疣粒稻属]]'''　'''''Padia''''' Moritzi
*4. '''[[假稻属]]'''　'''''Leersia''''' Sol. ex Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[李氏禾属]]'''　'''''Blepharochloa''''' Endl.
*5. '''[[山涧草属]]'''　'''''Chikusichloa''''' Koidz.
*6. '''[[水禾属]]'''　'''''Hygroryza''''' Nees
*7. '''[[菰属]]'''　'''''Zizania''''' L.
*8. '''[[纪如竹属]]'''　'''''Hsuehochloa''''' D. Z. Li & Y. X. Zhang
*9. '''[[悬竹属]]'''　'''''Ampelocalamus''''' S. L. Chen, T. H. Wen & G. Y. Sheng
*10. '''[[镰序竹属]]'''　'''''Drepanostachyum''''' Keng f.
*11. '''[[须弥筱竹属]]''' {{Sm|(喜马拉雅筱竹属)}}　'''''Himalayacalamus''''' Keng f.
*12. '''[[贡山竹属]]'''　'''''Gaoligongshania''''' D. Z. Li, Hsueh & N. H. Xia
*13. '''[[香竹属]]'''　'''''Chimonocalamus''''' Hsueh & T. P. Yi
*14. '''[[箭竹属]]''' {{Sm|(龙头竹属，法氏竹属)}}　'''''Fargesia''''' Franch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏箭竹属]]'''　'''''Borinda''''' Stapleton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华西箭竹属]]'''　'''''Sinarundinaria''''' Nakai
*15. '''[[冷箭竹属]]'''　'''''Sarocalamus''''' Stapleton
*16. '''[[筱竹属]]'''　'''''Thamnocalamus''''' Munro
*17. '''[[玉山竹属]]'''　'''''Yushania''''' Keng f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单苞竹属]]'''　'''''Monospatha''''' W. T. Lin
*18. '''[[雷文竹属]]'''　'''''Ravenochloa''''' D. Z. Li & Y. X. Zhang
*19. '''[[酸竹属]]'''　'''''Acidosasa''''' C. D. Chu & C. S. Chao ex Keng f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异枝竹属]]'''　'''''Metasasa''''' W. T. Lin
*20. '''[[巴山木竹属]]'''　'''''Bashania''''' Keng f. & T. P. Yi
*21. '''[[寒竹属]]''' {{Sm|(方竹属)}}　'''''Chimonobambusa''''' Makino
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[月月竹属]]'''　'''''Menstruocalamus''''' T. P. Yi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川方竹属]]'''　'''''Oreocalamus''''' Keng
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[筇竹属]]'''　'''''Qiongzhuea''''' Hsueh & T. P. Yi
*22. '''[[铁竹属]]'''　'''''Ferrocalamus''''' Hsueh & Keng f.
*23. '''[[短枝竹属]]''' {{Sm|(井冈寒竹属)}}　'''''Gelidocalamus''''' T. H. Wen
*24. '''[[箬竹属]]'''　'''''Indocalamus''''' Nakai
*25. '''[[大节竹属]]''' {{Sm|(鹤膝竹属)}}　'''''Indosasa''''' McClure
*26. '''[[少穗竹属]]'''　'''''Oligostachyum''''' Z. P. Wang & G. H. Ye
*27. '''[[刚竹属]]''' {{Sm|(淡竹属，毛竹属)}}　'''''Phyllostachys''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*28. '''[[苦竹属]]''' {{Sm|(川竹属，女竹属，大明竹属)}}　'''''Pleioblastus''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川竹属]]'''　'''''Nipponocalamus''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花竹属]]'''　'''''Polyanthus''''' C. H. Hu ex Y. C. Hu
*29. '''[[矢竹属]]''' {{Sm|(假笹属，强弩笹属，茶竿竹属)}}　'''''Pseudosasa''''' Makino ex Nakai
*30. '''[[赤竹属]]''' {{Sm|(笹属)}}　'''''Sasa''''' Makino & Shibata
*31. '''[[华箬竹属]]''' {{Sm|(薦竹属，类箬竹属)}}　'''''Sasamorpha''''' Nakai
*32. '''[[业平竹属]]'''　'''''Semiarundinaria''''' Makino ex Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短穗竹属]]'''　'''''Brachystachyum''''' Keng
*33. '''[[鹅毛竹属]]''' {{Sm|(阿黾笹属，倭竹属)}}　'''''Shibataea''''' Makino ex Nakai
*34. '''[[唐竹属]]'''　'''''Sinobambusa''''' Makino ex Nakai
*35. '''[[丘竹属]]''' {{Sm|(丘斯夸竹属，朱丝贵竹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chusquea'''''|i}} Kunth
*36. '''[[瓜多竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guadua'''''|i}} Kunth
*37. '''[[墨西哥竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otatea'''''|i}} (McClure & E. W. Sm.) C. E. Calderón & Soderstr.
*38. '''[[簕竹属]]''' {{Sm|(箣竹属，山白竹属)}}　'''''Bambusa''''' Schreb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿竹属]]'''　'''''Dendrocalamopsis''''' Q. H. Dai & X. L. Tao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[孝顺竹属]]''' {{Sm|(凤尾竹属，凤凰竹属)}}　'''''Leleba''''' Rumph. ex Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单竹属]]''' {{Sm|(箪竹属)}}　'''''Lingnania''''' McClure
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[慈竹属]]'''　'''''Neosinocalamus''''' Keng f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青竿竹属]]'''　'''''Tetragonocalamus''''' Nakai
*39. '''[[单枝竹属]]''' {{Sm|(越南竹属)}}　'''''Bonia''''' Balansa
*40. '''[[牡竹属]]''' {{Sm|(苏麻竹属)}}　'''''Dendrocalamus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麻竹属]]''' {{Sm|(慈竹属，龙竹属，甜竹属)}}　'''''Sinocalamus''''' McClure
*41. '''[[藤竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dinochloa'''''|i}} Buse
*42. '''[[巨竹属]]''' {{Sm|(巨草竹属，滇竹属)}}　'''''Gigantochloa''''' Kurz ex Munro
*43. '''[[多枝竹属]]'''　'''''Holttumochloa''''' K. M. Wong
*44. '''[[梨藤竹属]]''' {{Sm|(林檎竹属，思摩竹属)}}　'''''Melocalamus''''' Benth.
*45. '''[[新小竹属]]'''　'''''Neomicrocalamus''''' Keng f.
*46. '''[[泰竹属]]''' {{Sm|(暹逻竹属，复穗竹属)}}　'''''Thyrsostachys''''' Gamble
*47. '''[[狭叶竹属]]''' {{Sm|(拿司竹属，褐纹竹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nastus'''''|i}} Juss.
*48. '''[[空竹属]]''' {{Sm|(糯竹属，香竹属)}}　'''''Cephalostachyum''''' Munro
*49. '''[[梨竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melocanna'''''|i}} Trin.
*50. '''[[李海竹属]]''' {{Sm|(糯米竹属)}}　'''''Neohouzeaua''''' A. Camus
*51. '''[[泡竹属]]''' {{Sm|(假穗竹属)}}　'''''Pseudostachyum''''' Munro
*52. '''[[%F0%A5%AF%A8簩竹属]]'''　'''''Schizostachyum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄竹属]]'''　'''''Leptocanna''''' L. C. Chia & H. L. Fung
*53. '''[[短颖草属]]'''　'''''Brachyelytrum''''' P. Beauv.
*54. '''[[显子草属]]'''　'''''Phaenosperma''''' Munro ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[槽稃草属]]'''　'''''Euthryptochloa''''' Cope
*55. '''[[毛蕊草属]]'''　'''''Duthiea''''' Hack.
*56. '''[[冠毛草属]]'''　'''''Stephanachne''''' Keng
*57. '''[[三蕊草属]]'''　'''''Sinochasea''''' Keng
*58. '''[[扁穗茅属]]''' {{Sm|(扁穗草属)}}　'''''Brylkinia''''' F. Schmidt
*59. '''[[甜茅属]]'''　'''''Glyceria''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水甜茅属]]'''　'''''Exydra''''' Endl.
*60. '''[[裂稃茅属]]'''　'''''Schizachne''''' Hack.
*61. '''[[臭草属]]'''　'''''Melica''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小穗臭草属]]'''　'''''Beckeria''''' Bernh.
*62. '''[[针茅属]]'''　'''''Stipa''''' L.
*63. '''[[架绳草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ampelodesmos'''''|i}} Link
*64. '''[[沙鞭属]]'''　'''''Psammochloa''''' Hitchc.
*65. '''[[芨芨草属]]'''　'''''Neotrinia''''' (Tzvelev) M. Nobis, P. D. Gudkova & A. Nowak
*66. '''[[寒米草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oryzopsis'''''|i}} Michx.
*67. '''[[三角草属]]'''　'''''Trikeraia''''' Bor
*68. '''[[直芒草属]]'''　'''''Orthoraphium''''' Nees
*69. '''[[细柄茅属]]'''　'''''Ptilagrostis''''' Griseb.
*70. '''[[长旗草属]]''' {{Sm|(茅针属)}}　'''''Patis''''' Ohwi
*71. '''[[落芒草属]]'''　'''''Piptatherum''''' P. Beauv.
*72. '''[[雉尾茅属]]''' {{Sm|(风草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anemanthele'''''|i}} Veldkamp
*73. '''[[羽茅属]]'''　'''''Achnatherum''''' P. Beauv.
*74. '''[[钝基草属]]''' {{Sm|(沙丘草属)}}　'''''Timouria''''' Roshev.
*75. '''[[龙常草属]]'''　'''''Diarrhena''''' P. Beauv.
*76. '''[[短柄草属]]'''　'''''Brachypodium''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二穗短柄草属]]'''　'''''Trachynia''''' Link
*77. '''[[矮扇穗茅属]]'''　'''''Pamiria''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*78. '''[[扇穗茅属]]'''　'''''Littledalea''''' Hemsl.
*79. '''[[雀麦属]]'''　'''''Bromus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旱雀麦属]]'''　'''''Anisantha''''' K. Koch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[类雀麦属]]'''　'''''Bromopsis''''' (Dumort.) Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扁穗雀麦属]]'''　'''''Ceratochloa''''' DC. & P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细雀麦属]]'''　'''''Nevskiella''''' V. I. Krecz. & Vved.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[总状雀麦属]]'''　'''''Serrafalcus''''' Parl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疏花雀麦属]]'''　'''''Stenofestuca''''' (Honda) Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三芒雀麦属]]'''　'''''Triniusa''''' Steud.
*80. '''[[新麦草属]]'''　'''''Psathyrostachys''''' Nevski
*81. '''[[赖草属]]''' {{Sm|(滨麦属)}}　'''''Leymus''''' Hochst.
*82. '''[[大麦属]]'''　'''''Hordeum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芒麦草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Critesion'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏青稞属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Critho'''''|v}} E. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二棱大麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zeocriton'''''|v}} Wolf
*83. '''[[假鹅观草属]]''' {{Sm|(拟鹅观草属)}}　'''''Pseudoroegneria''''' (Nevski) &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
*84. '''[[鹅观草属]]'''　'''''Roegneria''''' K. Koch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[真穗鹅观草属]]'''　'''''Semeiostachys''''' Drobow
*85. '''[[披碱草属]]'''　'''''Elymus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[偃麦草属]]'''　'''''Elytrigia''''' Desv.
*86. '''[[薄冰草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thinopyrum'''''|i}} &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
*87. '''[[冰草属]]'''　'''''Agropyron''''' Gaertn.
*88. '''[[仲彬草属]]''' {{Sm|(以礼草属)}}　'''''Kengyilia''''' C. Yen & J. L. Yang
*89. '''[[旱麦草属]]'''　'''''Eremopyrum''''' (Ledeb.) Jaub. & Spach
*90. '''[[黑麦属]]'''　'''''Secale''''' L.
*91. '''[[小麦属]]'''　'''''Triticum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊小麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Aegilotriticum'''''|i}} P. Fourn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山羊草属]]'''　'''''Aegilops''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[一粒小麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crithodium'''''|i}} Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆柱山羊草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cylindropyrum'''''|i}} (Jaub. & Spach) &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[偏凸山羊草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gastropyrum'''''|i}} (Jaub. & Spach) &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞穗山羊草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kiharapyrum'''''|i}} &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[节节麦属]]'''　'''''Patropyrum''''' &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斯卑尔脱小麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spelta'''''|i}} Wolf
*92. '''[[兔尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagurus'''''|i}} L.
*93. '''[[青异燕麦属]]'''　'''''Trisetopsis''''' R&ouml;ser & A. W&ouml;lk
*94. '''[[燕麦草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arrhenatherum'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*95. '''[[山燕麦属]]'''　'''''Helictotrichon''''' Besser ex Schult. & Schult. f.
*96. '''[[小山燕麦属]]'''　'''''Tzveleviochloa''''' R&ouml;ser & A. W&ouml;lk
*97. '''[[燕麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Avena'''''|v}} L.
*98. '''[[三毛草属]]'''　'''''Sibirotrisetum''''' Barberá, Soreng, Romasch., Quintanar & P. M. Peterson
*99. '''[[山三毛草属]]'''　'''''Trisetum''''' Pers.
*100. '''[[&#176688;草属]]'''　'''''Koeleria''''' Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阿尔泰&#176688;草属]]'''　'''''Airochloa''''' Link
*101. '''[[虉草属]]'''　'''''Phalaris''''' L.
*102. '''[[黄花茅属]]'''　'''''Anthoxanthum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾黄花茅属]]'''　'''''Ataxia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茅香属]]'''　'''''Hierochloe''''' R. Br.
*103. '''[[凌风草属]]'''　'''''Briza''''' L.
*104. '''[[大凌风草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macrobriza'''''|i}} (Tzvelev) Tzvelev
*105. '''[[剪股颖属]]'''　'''''Agrostis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匍匐剪股颖属]]'''　'''''Vilfa''''' Adans.
*106. '''[[棒头草属]]'''　'''''Polypogon''''' Desf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲棒头草属]]'''　'''''Nowodworskya''''' J. Presl
*107. '''[[拂子茅属]]'''　'''''Calamagrostis''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异颖草属]]'''　'''''Anisachne''''' Keng
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野青茅属]]'''　'''''Deyeuxia''''' Clarion ex P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亮颖野青茅属]]'''　'''''Stilpnophleum''''' Nevski
*108. '''[[曲芒发草属]]'''　'''''Avenella''''' Bluff ex Drejer
*109. '''[[银须草属]]'''　'''''Aira''''' L.
*110. '''[[绒毛草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Holcus'''''|i}} L.
*111. '''[[猬禾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinaria'''''|i}} Desf.
*112. '''[[蓝禾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sesleria'''''|i}} Scop.
*113. '''[[水茅属]]'''　'''''Scolochloa''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[富民草属]]'''　'''''Fluminia''''' Fr.
*114. '''[[黑麦草属]]'''　'''''Lolium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毒麦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Craepalia'''''|v}} Schrank
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬直黑麦草属]]'''　'''''Crypturus''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大羊茅属]]'''　'''''Heteranthus''''' Borkh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银穗草属]]'''　'''''Leucopoa''''' Griseb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬叶银穗草属]]'''　'''''Nabelekia''''' Roshev.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苇状羊茅属]]'''　'''''Schedonorus''''' P. Beauv.
*115. '''[[羊茅属]]'''　'''''Festuca''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫鼠茅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chloammia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鼠茅属]]'''　'''''Vulpia''''' C. C. Gmel.
*116. '''[[洋狗尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cynosurus'''''|v}} L.
*117. '''[[假牛鞭草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parapholis'''''|v}} C. E. Hubb.
*118. '''[[鸭茅属]]'''　'''''Dactylis''''' L.
*119. '''[[金顶草属]]''' {{Sm|(金颈草属，拉马克草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lamarckia'''''|i}} Moench
*120. '''[[发草属]]'''　'''''Deschampsia''''' P. Beauv.
*121. '''[[异燕麦属]]'''　'''''Helictochloa''''' Romero Zarco
*122. '''[[莎禾属]]'''　'''''Coleanthus''''' Seidl
*123. '''[[硬草属]]'''　'''''Sclerochloa''''' P. Beauv.
*124. '''[[碱茅属]]'''　'''''Puccinellia''''' Parl.
*125. '''[[假硬草属]]'''　'''''Pseudosclerochloa''''' Tzvelev
*126. '''[[沿沟草属]]'''　'''''Catabrosa''''' P. Beauv.
*127. '''[[假拟沿沟草属]]'''　'''''Paracolpodium''''' (Tzvelev) Tzvelev
*128. '''[[小沿沟草属]]'''　'''''Catabrosella''''' (Tzvelev) Tzvelev
*129. '''[[毛轴异燕麦属]]'''　'''''Avenula''''' (Dumort.) Dumort.
*130. '''[[粟草属]]'''　'''''Milium''''' L.
*131. '''[[梯牧草属]]'''　'''''Phleum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假梯牧草属]]'''　'''''Chilochloa''''' P. Beauv.
*132. '''[[沟稃草属]]'''　'''''Aniselytron''''' Merr.
*133. '''[[早熟禾属]]'''　'''''Poa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旱禾属]]'''　'''''Eremopoa''''' Roshev.
*134. '''[[类早熟禾属]]'''　'''''Arctopoa''''' (Griseb.) Prob.
*135. '''[[单蕊草属]]'''　'''''Cinna''''' L.
*136. '''[[杯禾属]]'''　'''''Cyathopus''''' Stapf
*137. '''[[菵草属]]'''　'''''Beckmannia''''' Host
*138. '''[[看麦娘属]]'''　'''''Alopecurus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本看麦娘属]]'''　'''''Alopecuropsis''''' Opiz
*139. '''[[三芒草属]]'''　'''''Aristida''''' L.
*140. '''[[针禾属]]'''　'''''Stipagrostis''''' Nees
*141. '''[[芦竹属]]'''　'''''Arundo''''' L.
*142. '''[[蓝沼草属]]''' {{Sm|(麦氏草属，蓝禾属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Molinia'''''|i}} Schrank
*143. '''[[里叶草属]]''' {{Sm|(箱根草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hakonechloa'''''|i}} Makino ex Honda
*144. '''[[沼原草属]]'''　'''''Moliniopsis''''' Hayata
*145. '''[[芦苇属]]'''　'''''Phragmites''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卡开芦属]]'''　'''''Trichoon''''' Roth
*146. '''[[总苞草属]]'''　'''''Elytrophorus''''' P. Beauv.
*147. '''[[鹧鸪草属]]'''　'''''Eriachne''''' R. Br.
*148. '''[[小丽草属]]'''　'''''Coelachne''''' R. Br.
*149. '''[[柳叶箬属]]'''　'''''Isachne''''' R. Br.
*150. '''[[稗荩属]]'''　'''''Sphaerocaryum''''' Nees ex Hook. f.
*151. '''[[雪丛茅属]]''' {{Sm|(白穗茅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chionochloa'''''|i}} Zotov
*152. '''[[蒲苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cortaderia'''''|i}} Stapf
*153. '''[[扁芒草属]]'''　'''''Danthonia''''' DC.
*154. '''[[齿稃草属]]'''　'''''Schismus''''' P. Beauv.
*155. '''[[类芦属]]'''　'''''Neyraudia''''' Hook. f.
*156. '''[[九顶草属]]''' {{Sm|(冠芒草属)}}　'''''Enneapogon''''' Desv. ex P. Beauv.
*157. '''[[镰稃草属]]'''　'''''Harpachne''''' A. Rich.
*158. '''[[画眉草属]]'''　'''''Eragrostis''''' Wolf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[戈壁画眉草属]]'''　'''''Boriskellera''''' Terechov
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乱草属]]'''　'''''Diandrochloa''''' De Winter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛画眉草属]]'''　'''''Macroblepharus''''' Phil.
*159. '''[[结缕草属]]'''　'''''Zoysia''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沟叶结缕草属]]'''　'''''Matrella''''' Pers.
*160. '''[[鼠尾粟属]]'''　'''''Sporobolus''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[热带鼠尾粟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agrosticula'''''|v}} Raddi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐花草属]]'''　'''''Crypsis''''' Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗隐草属]]''' {{Sm|(扎股草属)}}　'''''Heleochloa''''' Host ex Roem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[米草属]]''' {{Sm|(大米草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Spartina'''''|v}} Schreb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双蕊鼠尾粟属]]'''　'''''Spermachiton''''' Llanos
*161. '''[[羽穗草属]]'''　'''''Desmostachya''''' (Stapf) Stapf
*162. '''[[细画眉草属]]'''　'''''Eragrostiella''''' Bor
*163. '''[[草沙蚕属]]'''　'''''Tripogon''''' Roem. & Schult.
*164. '''[[三齿稃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tridens'''''|i}} Roem. & Schult.
*165. '''[[锋芒草属]]'''　'''''Tragus''''' Haller
*166. '''[[乱子草属]]'''　'''''Muhlenbergia''''' Schreb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芒毛乱子草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podosemum'''''|i}} Desv.
*167. '''[[垂穗草属]]''' {{Sm|(格兰马草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bouteloua'''''|i}} Lag.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野牛草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Buchloe'''''|i}} Engelm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[永轴茅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chondrosum'''''|i}} Desv.
*168. '''[[尖稃草属]]'''　'''''Acrachne''''' Wight & Arn. ex Chiov.
*169. '''[[龙爪茅属]]'''　'''''Dactyloctenium''''' Willd.
*170. '''[[穇属]]'''　'''''Eleusine''''' Gaertn.
*171. '''[[双稃草属]]'''　'''''Diplachne''''' P. Beauv.
*172. '''[[千金子属]]'''　'''''Leptochloa''''' P. Beauv.
*173. '''[[肠须草属]]'''　'''''Enteropogon''''' Nees
*174. '''[[虎尾草属]]'''　'''''Chloris''''' Sw.
*175. '''[[细穗草属]]'''　'''''Lepturus''''' R. Br.
*176. '''[[小草属]]'''　'''''Microchloa''''' R. Br.
*177. '''[[真穗草属]]'''　'''''Eustachys''''' Desv.
*178. '''[[孟仁草属]]'''　'''''Stapfochloa''''' H. Scholz
*179. '''[[狗牙根属]]'''　'''''Cynodon''''' Rich.
*180. '''[[固沙草属]]'''　'''''Orinus''''' Hitchc.
*181. '''[[隐子草属]]'''　'''''Cleistogenes''''' Keng
*182. '''[[弯穗草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dinebra'''''|v}} Jacq.
*183. '''[[獐毛属]]'''　'''''Aeluropus''''' Trin.
*184. '''[[芒畔茅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gouinia'''''|i}} E. Fourn. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*185. '''[[茅根属]]'''　'''''Perotis''''' Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花茅根属]]'''　'''''Xystidium''''' Trin.
*186. '''[[千穗草属]]'''　'''''Myriostachya''''' (Benth.) Hook. f.
*187. '''[[粽叶芦属]]'''　'''''Thysanolaena''''' Nees
*188. '''[[酸模芒属]]''' {{Sm|(假淡竹叶属)}}　'''''Centotheca''''' Desv.
*189. '''[[淡竹叶属]]'''　'''''Lophatherum''''' Brongn.
*190. '''[[林燕麦属]]''' {{Sm|(小盼草属，裂冠花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chasmanthium'''''|i}} Link
*191. '''[[囊颖草属]]'''　'''''Sacciolepis''''' Nash
*192. '''[[莲座黍属]]''' {{Sm|(二型花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dichanthelium'''''|v}} (Hitchc. & Chase) Gould
*193. '''[[马唐属]]'''　'''''Digitaria''''' Haller
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄稃草属]]'''　'''''Leptoloma''''' Chase
*194. '''[[稗属]]'''　'''''Echinochloa''''' P. Beauv.
*195. '''[[露籽草属]]'''　'''''Ottochloa''''' Dandy
*196. '''[[凤头黍属]]'''　'''''Acroceras''''' Stapf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山鸡谷草属]]'''　'''''Neohusnotia''''' A. Camus
*197. '''[[刺毛头黍属]]'''　'''''Setiacis''''' S. L. Chen & Y. X. Jin
*198. '''[[毛颖草属]]'''　'''''Alloteropsis''''' J. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫纹毛颖草属]]'''　'''''Bluffia''''' Nees ex Lehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭虫草属]]'''　'''''Coridochloa''''' Nees
*199. '''[[钩毛草属]]'''　'''''Pseudechinolaena''''' Stapf
*200. '''[[弓果黍属]]'''　'''''Cyrtococcum''''' Stapf
*201. '''[[求米草属]]'''　'''''Oplismenus''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[热带求米草属]]'''　'''''Hekaterosachne''''' Steud.
*202. '''[[钝叶草属]]'''　'''''Stenotaphrum''''' Trin.
*203. '''[[类雀稗属]]'''　'''''Paspalidium''''' Stapf
*204. '''[[狗尾草属]]'''　'''''Setaria''''' P. Beauv.
*205. '''[[蒺藜草属]]'''　'''''Cenchrus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[非洲狼尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Catatherophora'''''|v}} Steud.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铺地狼尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kikuyuochloa'''''|i}} H. Scholz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狼尾草属]]'''　'''''Pennisetum''''' Rich.
*206. '''[[鬣刺属]]'''　'''''Spinifex''''' L.
*207. '''[[伪针茅属]]'''　'''''Pseudoraphis''''' Griff. ex Pilg.
*208. '''[[砂滨草属]]''' {{Sm|(卷轴草属，蒭雷草属)}}　'''''Thuarea''''' Pers.
*209. '''[[臂形草属]]'''　'''''Moorochloa''''' Veldkamp
*210. '''[[糖蜜草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melinis'''''|v}} P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花红毛草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monachyron'''''|v}} Parl. ex Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红毛草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhynchelytrum'''''|v}} Nees
*211. '''[[尾稃草属]]'''　'''''Urochloa''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[手号草属]]'''　'''''Brachiaria''''' (Trin.) Griseb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大黍属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Megathyrsus'''''|v}} (Pilg.) B. K. Simon & S. W. L. Jacobs
*212. '''[[野黍属]]'''　'''''Eriochloa''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高野黍属]]'''　'''''Helopus''''' Trin.
*213. '''[[黍属]]'''　'''''Panicum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳枝稷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eatonia'''''|i}} Raf.
*214. '''[[膜稃草属]]'''　'''''Hymenachne''''' P. Beauv.
*215. '''[[距花黍属]]'''　'''''Ichnanthus''''' P. Beauv.
*216. '''[[地毯草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Axonopus'''''|v}} P. Beauv.
*217. '''[[雀稗属]]'''　'''''Paspalum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棱稃雀稗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anachyris'''''|i}} Nees
*218. '''[[野古草属]]'''　'''''Arundinella''''' Raddi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石芒草属]]'''　'''''Acratherum''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[猫尾野古草属]]'''　'''''Calamochloe''''' Rchb.
*219. '''[[耳稃草属]]''' {{Sm|(对穗草属)}}　'''''Garnotia''''' Brongn.
*220. '''[[水蔗草属]]'''　'''''Apluda''''' L.
*221. '''[[金须茅属]]'''　'''''Chrysopogon''''' Trin.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[竹节草属]]'''　'''''Rhaphis''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香根草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vetiveria'''''|v}} Bory
*222. '''[[拟金茅属]]'''　'''''Eulaliopsis''''' Honda
*223. '''[[沟颖草属]]'''　'''''Sehima''''' Forssk.
*224. '''[[蔗茅属]]'''　'''''Tripidium''''' H. Scholz
*225. '''[[荩草属]]'''　'''''Arthraxon''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光亮荩草属]]'''　'''''Batratherum''''' Nees
*226. '''[[皱颖草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhytachne'''''|v}} Desv. ex Ham.
*227. '''[[摩擦草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tripsacum'''''|i}} L.
*228. '''[[玉蜀黍属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zea'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[类蜀黍属]]''' {{Sm|(假蜀黍属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Euchlaena'''''|i}} Schrad.
*229. '''[[葫芦草属]]'''　'''''Chionachne''''' R. Br.
*230. '''[[多裔草属]]''' {{Sm|(多裔黍属)}}　'''''Polytoca''''' R. Br.
*231. '''[[大葫芦草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sclerachne'''''|i}} R. Br.
*232. '''[[薏苡属]]'''　'''''Coix''''' L.
*233. '''[[蜈蚣草属]]'''　'''''Eremochloa''''' Buse
*234. '''[[球穗草属]]'''　'''''Hackelochloa''''' Kuntze
*235. '''[[牛鞭草属]]'''　'''''Hemarthria''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大牛鞭草属]]'''　'''''Lodicularia''''' P. Beauv.
*236. '''[[毛俭草属]]'''　'''''Mnesithea''''' Kunth
*237. '''[[蛇尾草属]]'''　'''''Ophiuros''''' C. F. Gaertn.
*238. '''[[束尾草属]]'''　'''''Phacelurus''''' Griseb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锥茅属]]'''　'''''Thyrsia''''' Stapf
*239. '''[[筒轴茅属]]'''　'''''Rottboellia''''' L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[空轴茅属]]'''　'''''Coelorachis''''' Brongn.
*240. '''[[鸭嘴草属]]'''　'''''Ischaemum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簇穗鸭嘴草属]]'''　'''''Argopogon''''' Mimeur
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[田间鸭嘴草属]]'''　'''''Colladoa''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[有芒鸭嘴草属]]'''　'''''Meoschium''''' P. Beauv.
*241. '''[[雁茅属]]''' {{Sm|(觿茅属)}}　'''''Dimeria''''' R. Br.
*242. '''[[筒穗草属]]''' {{Sm|(吉曼草属)}}　'''''Germainia''''' Balansa & Poitr.
*243. '''[[楔颖草属]]'''　'''''Apocopis''''' Nees
*244. '''[[单序草属]]''' {{Sm|(三穗草属)}}　'''''Polytrias''''' Hack.
*245. '''[[芒属]]'''　'''''Miscanthus''''' Andersson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双药芒属]]'''　'''''Diandranthus''''' L. Liu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红山茅属]]'''　'''''Rubimons''''' B. S. Sun
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚轴草属]]'''　'''''Tenacistachya''''' L. Liu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[荻属]]'''　'''''Triarrhena''''' (Maxim.) Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五节芒属]]'''　'''''Xiphagrostis''''' Coville
*246. '''[[高粱属]]'''　'''''Sorghum''''' Moench
*247. '''[[甘蔗属]]'''　'''''Saccharum''''' L.
*248. '''[[河八王属]]'''　'''''Narenga''''' Bor
*249. '''[[金粱草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sorghastrum'''''|i}} Nash
*250. '''[[白茅属]]'''　'''''Imperata''''' Cirillo
*251. '''[[金发草属]]'''　'''''Pogonatherum''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金丝草属]]'''　'''''Pogonopsis''''' J. Presl
*252. '''[[假金发草属]]'''　'''''Pseudopogonatherum''''' A. Camus
*253. '''[[假高粱属]]'''　'''''Pseudosorghum''''' A. Camus
*254. '''[[竹叶茅属]]'''　'''''Leptatherum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[须芒竹叶茅属]]'''　'''''Polliniopsis''''' Hayata
*255. '''[[莠竹属]]'''　'''''Microstegium''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棒梗莠竹属]]'''　'''''Coelarthron''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旱莠竹属]]'''　'''''Ischnochloa''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短轴莠竹属]]'''　'''''Nemastachys''''' Steud.
*256. '''[[黄金茅属]]'''　'''''Eulalia''''' Kunth
*257. '''[[黄茅属]]'''　'''''Heteropogon''''' Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑果黄茅属]]'''　'''''Spirotheros''''' Raf.
*258. '''[[菅属]]'''　'''''Themeda''''' Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[巨菅属]]'''　'''''Androscepia''''' Brongn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁秆草属]]'''　'''''Anthistiria''''' L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苇菅属]]'''　'''''Perobachne''''' J. Presl
*259. '''[[细柄草属]]'''　'''''Capillipedium''''' Stapf
*260. '''[[双花草属]]'''　'''''Dichanthium''''' Willemet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛梗双花草属]]'''　'''''Diplasanthum''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单穗草属]]'''　'''''Lepeocercis''''' Trin.
*261. '''[[孔颖草属]]'''　'''''Bothriochloa''''' Kuntze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲白羊草属]]'''　'''''Amphilophis''''' Nash
*262. '''[[香茅属]]'''　'''''Cymbopogon''''' Spreng.
*263. '''[[裂稃草属]]'''　'''''Schizachyrium''''' Nees
*264. '''[[须芒草属]]'''　'''''Andropogon''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华须芒草属]]'''　'''''Homoeatherum''''' Nees ex Hook. & Arn.
*265. '''[[苞茅属]]'''　'''''Hyparrhenia''''' Andersson ex E. Fourn.
*266. '''[[大油芒属]]'''　'''''Spodiopogon''''' Trin.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油芒属]]'''　'''''Eccoilopus''''' Steud.
*267. '''[[假铁秆草属]]'''　'''''Pseudanthistiria''''' (Hack.) Hook. f.
==90. 金鱼藻目　Ceratophyllales==
===297. [[金鱼藻科]]　Ceratophyllaceae Gray===
*1. '''[[金鱼藻属]]'''　'''''Ceratophyllum''''' L.
==91. 毛茛目　Ranunculales==
===298. [[领春木科]]　Eupteleaceae K. Wilh.===
*1. '''[[领春木属]]'''　'''''Euptelea''''' Siebold & Zucc.
===299. [[罂粟科]]　Papaveraceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[罂粟木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dendromecon'''''|i}} Benth.
*2. '''[[花菱草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eschscholzia'''''|i}} Cham.
*3. '''[[金杯罂粟属]]''' {{Sm|(金杯花属，海杯草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hunnemannia'''''|i}} Sweet
*4. '''[[蓟罂粟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Argemone'''''|v}} L.
*5. '''[[大罂粟属]]''' {{Sm|(裂叶罂粟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Romneya'''''|i}} Harv.
*6. '''[[蒿枝七属]]'''　'''''Cathcartia''''' Hook. f.
*7. '''[[疆罂粟属]]''' {{Sm|(裂叶罂粟属)}}　'''''Roemeria''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺头罂粟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cerastites'''''|v}} Gray
*8. '''[[野罂粟属]]'''　'''''Tchenngoa''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*9. '''[[绿绒蒿属]]'''　'''''Meconopsis''''' Vig.
*10. '''[[罂粟属]]'''　'''''Papaver''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鬼罂粟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calomecon'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[威尔士罂粟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parameconopsis'''''|i}} Grey-Wilson
*11. '''[[血水草属]]'''　'''''Eomecon''''' Hance
*12. '''[[血根草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sanguinaria'''''|i}} Dill. ex L.
*13. '''[[博落回属]]'''　'''''Macleaya''''' R. Br.
*14. '''[[博落木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bocconia'''''|i}} L.
*15. '''[[秃疮花属]]'''　'''''Dicranostigma''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*16. '''[[海罂粟属]]'''　'''''Glaucium''''' Mill.
*17. '''[[荷青花属]]'''　'''''Hylomecon''''' Maxim.
*18. '''[[白屈菜属]]'''　'''''Chelidonium''''' L.
*19. '''[[金罂粟属]]'''　'''''Stylophorum''''' Nutt.
*20. '''[[蕨叶草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pteridophyllum'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
*21. '''[[角茴香属]]'''　'''''Hypecoum''''' L.
*22. '''[[荷包牡丹属]]'''　'''''Lamprocapnos''''' Endl.
*23. '''[[马裤花属]]''' {{Sm|(荷包牡丹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dicentra'''''|i}} Bernh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛首花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corniveum'''''|i}} Nieuwl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[血心花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eucapnos'''''|i}} Bernh.
*24. '''[[黄药属]]'''　'''''Ichtyoselmis''''' Lidén & Fukuhara
*25. '''[[荷包藤属]]''' {{Sm|(合瓣花属)}}　'''''Adlumia''''' Raf. ex DC.
*26. '''[[红堇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Capnoides'''''|i}} Mill.
*27. '''[[紫金龙属]]'''　'''''Dactylicapnos''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线果紫金龙属]]'''　'''''Macrocapnos''''' Royle ex Lindl.
*28. '''[[紫堇属]]'''　'''''Corydalis''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阿山黄堇属]]'''　'''''Calocapnos''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薯根延胡索属]]'''　'''''Cryptoceras''''' Schott & Kotschy
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊果紫堇属]]'''　'''''Cysticorydalis''''' Fedde ex Ikonn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疆堇属]]'''　'''''Roborowskia''''' Batalin
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄堇属]]'''　'''''Sophorocapnos''''' Turcz.
*29. '''[[烟堇属]]'''　'''''Fumaria''''' L.
===300. [[星叶草科]]　Circaeasteraceae Hutch.===
*1. '''[[星叶草属]]''' {{Sm|(星叶属)}}　'''''Circaeaster''''' Maxim.
*2. '''[[独叶草属]]'''　'''''Kingdonia''''' Balf. f. & W. W. Sm.
===301. [[木通科]]　Lardizabalaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[大血藤属]]'''　'''''Sargentodoxa''''' Rehder & E. H. Wilson
*2. '''[[猫儿屎属]]'''　'''''Decaisnea''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*3. '''[[串果藤属]]'''　'''''Sinofranchetia''''' (Diels) Hemsl.
*4. '''[[长萼木通属]]'''　'''''Archakebia''''' C. Y. Wu, T. C. Chen & H. N. Qin
*5. '''[[木通属]]'''　'''''Akebia''''' Decne.
*6. '''[[野木瓜属]]'''　'''''Stauntonia''''' DC.
*7. '''[[八月瓜属]]'''　'''''Holboellia''''' Wall.
*8. '''[[牛藤果属]]'''　'''''Parvatia''''' Decne.
===302. [[防己科]]　Menispermaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[古山龙属]]'''　'''''Arcangelisia''''' Becc.
*2. '''[[连蕊藤属]]'''　'''''Parabaena''''' Miers
*3. '''[[球果藤属]]'''　'''''Aspidocarya''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*4. '''[[大叶藤属]]'''　'''''Tinomiscium''''' Miers ex Hook. f. & Thomson
*5. '''[[天仙藤属]]'''　'''''Fibraurea''''' Lour.
*6. '''[[青牛胆属]]'''　'''''Paratinospora''''' Wei Wang
*7. '''[[宽筋藤属]]'''　'''''Tinospora''''' Miers
*8. '''[[风龙属]]'''　'''''Sinomenium''''' Diels
*9. '''[[蝙蝠葛属]]'''　'''''Menispermum''''' L.
*10. '''[[秤钩风属]]'''　'''''Diploclisia''''' Miers
*11. '''[[细圆藤属]]'''　'''''Pericampylus''''' Miers
*12. '''[[夜花藤属]]'''　'''''Hypserpa''''' Miers
*13. '''[[血果藤属]]'''　'''''Haematocarpus''''' Miers
*14. '''[[木防己属]]'''　'''''Cocculus''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[垂防己属]]'''　'''''Cebatha''''' Forssk.
*15. '''[[粉绿藤属]]'''　'''''Pachygone''''' Miers
*16. '''[[崖藤属]]'''　'''''Albertisia''''' Becc.
*17. '''[[密花藤属]]'''　'''''Pycnarrhena''''' Miers ex Hook. f. & Thomson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬骨藤属]]'''　'''''Pridania''''' Gagnep.
*18. '''[[藤枣属]]'''　'''''Eleutharrhena''''' Forman
*19. '''[[千金藤属]]'''　'''''Stephania''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桐叶千金藤属]]'''　'''''Ileocarpus''''' Miers
*20. '''[[轮环藤属]]'''　'''''Cyclea''''' Arn. ex Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肖轮环藤属]]'''　'''''Paracyclea''''' Kud&ocirc; & Yamam.
*21. '''[[锡生藤属]]'''　'''''Cissampelos''''' L.
===303. [[小檗科]]　Berberidaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[南天竹属]]'''　'''''Nandina''''' Thunb.
*2. '''[[红毛七属]]'''　'''''Caulophyllum''''' Michx.
*3. '''[[牡丹草属]]'''　'''''Gymnospermium''''' Spach
*4. '''[[囊果草属]]''' {{Sm|(狮足草属)}}　'''''Leontice''''' L.
*5. '''[[兰山草属]]''' {{Sm|(草檗属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ranzania'''''|i}} T. It&ocirc;
*6. '''[[十大功劳属]]'''　'''''Mahonia''''' Nutt.
*7. '''[[小檗属]]'''　'''''Berberis''''' L.
*8. '''[[二叶鲜黄连属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jeffersonia'''''|i}} Barton
*9. '''[[鲜黄连属]]'''　'''''Plagiorhegma''''' Maxim.
*10. '''[[淫羊藿属]]'''　'''''Epimedium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三枝九叶草属]]'''　'''''Aceranthus''''' C. Morren & Decne.
*11. '''[[鬼臼属]]'''　'''''Dysosma''''' Woodson
*12. '''[[山荷叶属]]'''　'''''Diphylleia''''' Michx.
*13. '''[[北美桃儿七属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podophyllum'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[桃儿七属]]'''　'''''Sinopodophyllum''''' T. S. Ying
===304. [[毛茛科]]　Ranunculaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[白根葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glaucidium'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
*2. '''[[黄根葵属]]''' {{Sm|(黄金印属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hydrastis'''''|i}} J. Ellis
*3. '''[[黄连属]]'''　'''''Coptis''''' Salisb.
*4. '''[[侧金盏花属]]'''　'''''Adonis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金黄侧金盏花属]]'''　'''''Chrysocyathus''''' Falc.
*5. '''[[鸡爪草属]]'''　'''''Calathodes''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*6. '''[[金莲花属]]'''　'''''Trollius''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[淡紫金莲花属]]'''　'''''Hegemone''''' Bunge ex Ledeb.
*7. '''[[唐松草属]]'''　'''''Thalictrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶唐松草属]]'''　'''''Piuttia''''' Mattei
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[箭头唐松草属]]'''　'''''Praticola''''' Ehrh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石砾唐松草属]]'''　'''''Schlagintweitiella''''' Ulbr.
*8. '''[[蓝堇草属]]'''　'''''Leptopyrum''''' Rchb.
*9. '''[[扁果草属]]'''　'''''Paropyrum''''' Ulbr.
*10. '''[[拟耧斗菜属]]'''　'''''Paraquilegia''''' J. R. Drumm. & Hutch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳突拟耧斗菜属]]'''　'''''Alexeya''''' Pachom.
*11. '''[[尾囊草属]]'''　'''''Urophysa''''' Ulbr.
*12. '''[[天葵属]]'''　'''''Semiaquilegia''''' Makino
*13. '''[[耧斗菜属]]'''　'''''Aquilegia''''' L.
*14. '''[[人字果属]]''' {{Sm|(银白草属)}}　'''''Dichocarpum''''' W. T. Wang & P. K. Hsiao
*15. '''[[拟扁果草属]]'''　'''''Enemion''''' Raf.
*16. '''[[北扁果草属]]'''　'''''Isopyrum''''' L.
*17. '''[[黑种草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nigella'''''|i}} L.
*18. '''[[乌头属]]'''　'''''Aconitum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛扁属]]'''　'''''Lycoctonum''''' (DC.) Fourr.
*19. '''[[露蕊乌头属]]'''　'''''Gymnaconitum''''' (Stapf) Wei Wang & Z. D. Chen
*20. '''[[翠雀属]]'''　'''''Delphinium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雨农花属]]'''　'''''Chienia''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[飞燕草属]]'''　'''''Consolida''''' (DC.) Gray
*21. '''[[驴蹄草属]]'''　'''''Caltha''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白花驴蹄草属]]'''　'''''Thacla''''' Spach
*22. '''[[星果草属]]'''　'''''Asteropyrum''''' J. R. Drumm. & Hutch.
*23. '''[[莲花升麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anemonopsis'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
*24. '''[[铁破锣属]]'''　'''''Beesia''''' Balf. f. & W. W. Sm.
*25. '''[[菟葵属]]'''　'''''Eranthis''''' Salisb.
*26. '''[[类叶升麻属]]'''　'''''Actaea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兴安升麻属]]'''　'''''Actinospora''''' Turcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[升麻属]]'''　'''''Cimicifuga''''' L. ex Wernisch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小升麻属]]'''　'''''Pityrosperma''''' Siebold & Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄三七属]]'''　'''''Souliea''''' Franch.
*27. '''[[美花草属]]'''　'''''Callianthemum''''' C. A. Mey.
*28. '''[[铁筷子属]]'''　'''''Helleborus''''' L.
*29. '''[[罂粟莲花属]]'''　'''''Anemoclema''''' (Franch.) W. T. Wang
*30. '''[[铁线莲属]]'''　'''''Clematis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[互叶铁线莲属]]'''　'''''Archiclematis''''' Tamura
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长瓣铁线莲属]]''' {{Sm|(赛铁线莲属)}}　'''''Atragene''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绣球藤属]]'''　'''''Cheiropsis''''' (DC.) Bercht. ex J. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[革花铁线莲属]]'''　'''''Coriflora''''' W. A. Weber
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花铁线莲属]]'''　'''''Meclatis''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锡兰莲属]]'''　'''''Naravelia''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全缘铁线莲属]]'''　'''''Valvaria''''' Ser.
*31. '''[[獐耳细辛属]]'''　'''''Hepatica''''' Mill.
*32. '''[[银莲花属]]'''　'''''Anemonastrum''''' Holub
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二歧银莲花属]]'''　'''''Anemonidium''''' (Spach) Holub
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹅掌草属]]'''　'''''Arsenjevia''''' Starod.
*33. '''[[白头翁属]]'''　'''''Pulsatilla''''' Mill.
*34. '''[[欧银莲属]]'''　'''''Anemone''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西南银莲花属]]'''　'''''Anemonoides''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秋牡丹属]]'''　'''''Eriocapitella''''' Nakai
*35. '''[[毛茛莲花属]]'''　'''''Metanemone''''' W. T. Wang
*36. '''[[鸦跖花属]]'''　'''''Oxygraphis''''' Bunge
*37. '''[[碱毛茛属]]'''　'''''Halerpestes''''' Greene
*38. '''[[角果毛茛属]]'''　'''''Ceratocephala''''' Moench
*39. '''[[毛茛属]]'''　'''''Ranunculus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水毛茛属]]'''　'''''Batrachium''''' (DC.) Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花毛茛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyprianthe'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石龙芮属]]'''　'''''Hecatonia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺果毛茛属]]'''　'''''Notophilus''''' Fourr.
==92. 山龙眼目　Proteales==
===305. [[清风藤科]]　Sabiaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[清风藤属]]'''　'''''Sabia''''' Colebr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柠檬清风藤属]]'''　'''''Androglossum''''' Champ. ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花清风藤属]]''' {{Sm|(歧花鼠刺属)}}　'''''Changiodendron''''' R. H. Miao
*2. '''[[珂楠树属]]'''　'''''Kingsboroughia''''' Liebm.
*3. '''[[泡花树属]]'''　'''''Meliosma''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单叶泡花树属]]'''　'''''Wellingtonia''''' Meisn.
===306. [[莲科]]　Nelumbonaceae A. Rich.===
*1. '''[[莲属]]'''　'''''Nelumbo''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyamus'''''|i}} Sm.
===307. [[悬铃木科]]　Platanaceae T. Lestib.===
*1. '''[[悬铃木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Platanus'''''|i}} L.
===308. [[山龙眼科]]　Proteaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[金钗木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Persoonia'''''|i}} Sm.
*2. '''[[帝王花属]]''' {{Sm|(海神花属，多变花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Protea'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[木百合属]]''' {{Sm|(银白树属，银树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leucadendron'''''|i}} R. Br.
*4. '''[[娇娘花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Serruria'''''|i}} Burm. ex Salisb.
*5. '''[[针垫花属]]''' {{Sm|(白子树属，银宝树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leucospermum'''''|i}} R. Br.
*6. '''[[蜜汁树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Knightia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*7. '''[[山龙眼属]]'''　'''''Helicia''''' Lour.
*8. '''[[榄仁栎属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Darlingia'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*9. '''[[佛塔树属]]''' {{Sm|(斑克木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Banksia'''''|i}} L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓟序木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dryandra'''''|i}} R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹦鹉木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Josephia'''''|i}} R. Br. ex Knight
*10. '''[[扭瓣花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lomatia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*11. '''[[筒瓣花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Embothrium'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*12. '''[[蒂罗花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Telopea'''''|i}} R. Br.
*13. '''[[火轮树属]]''' {{Sm|(狭果树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stenocarpus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*14. '''[[鳞背木属]]''' {{Sm|(红光银桦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Opisthiolepis'''''|i}} L. B. Sm.
*15. '''[[曲牙花属]]''' {{Sm|(白金汉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Buckinghamia'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*16. '''[[荣桦属]]''' {{Sm|(哈克木属，荣华树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hakea'''''|i}} Schrad.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绢毛荣桦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conchium'''''|i}} Sm.
*17. '''[[银桦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Grevillea'''''|i}} R. Br. ex Knight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白毛银桦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stylurus'''''|i}} Salisb. ex Knight
*18. '''[[澳洲坚果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macadamia'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*19. '''[[假山龙眼属]]'''　'''''Heliciopsis''''' Sleumer
*20. '''[[智利榛属]]''' {{Sm|(格优纳属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gevuina'''''|i}} Molina
==93. 昆栏树目　Trochodendrales==
===309. [[昆栏树科]]　Trochodendraceae Eichler===
*1. '''[[水青树属]]'''　'''''Tetracentron''''' Oliv.
*2. '''[[昆栏树属]]'''　'''''Trochodendron''''' Siebold & Zucc.
==94. 黄杨目　Buxales==
===310. [[黄杨科]]　Buxaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[野扇花属]]''' {{Sm|(清香桂属)}}　'''''Sarcococca''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳叶野扇花属]]'''　'''''Lepidopelma''''' Klotzsch
*2. '''[[板凳果属]]'''　'''''Pachysandra''''' Michx.
*3. '''[[黄杨属]]'''　'''''Buxus''''' L.
==95. 大叶草目　Gunnerales==
===311. [[大叶草科]]　Gunneraceae Meisn.===
*1. '''[[大叶草属]]''' {{Sm|(南洋小二仙属，蚁塔属，洋二仙草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gunnera'''''|i}} L.
==96. 五桠果目　Dilleniales==
===312. [[五桠果科]]　Dilleniaceae Salisb.===
*1. '''[[锡叶藤属]]'''　'''''Tetracera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛果锡叶藤属]]'''　'''''Euryandra''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*2. '''[[五桠果属]]'''　'''''Dillenia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫萼五桠果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Capellia'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花五桠果属]]'''　'''''Colbertia''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锈毛抱节木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neowormia'''''|i}} Hutch. & Summerh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[抱节木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wormia'''''|i}} Rottb.
*3. '''[[纽扣花属]]''' {{Sm|(束蕊花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hibbertia'''''|i}} Andrews
==97. 虎耳草目　Saxifragales==
===313. [[芍药科]]　Paeoniaceae Raf.===
*1. '''[[芍药属]]'''　'''''Paeonia''''' L.
===314. [[蕈树科]]　Altingiaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[枫香树属]]''' {{Sm|(枫香属)}}　'''''Liquidambar''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕈树属]]''' {{Sm|(阿丁枫属)}}　'''''Altingia''''' Noronha
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[半枫荷属]]'''　'''''Semiliquidambar''''' Hung T. Chang
===315. [[金缕梅科]]　Hamamelidaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[马蹄荷属]]'''　'''''Exbucklandia''''' R. W. Br.
*2. '''[[红花荷属]]''' {{Sm|(红苞木属)}}　'''''Rhodoleia''''' Champ. ex Hook.
*3. '''[[壳菜果属]]'''　'''''Mytilaria''''' Lecomte
*4. '''[[山铜材属]]''' {{Sm|(假马蹄荷属)}}　'''''Chunia''''' Hung T. Chang
*5. '''[[双花木属]]'''　'''''Disanthus''''' Maxim.
*6. '''[[蜡瓣花属]]'''　'''''Corylopsis''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*7. '''[[檵木属]]'''　'''''Loropetalum''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四药门花属]]'''　'''''Tetrathyrium''''' Benth.
*8. '''[[毛缕梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichocladus'''''|i}} Pers.
*9. '''[[秀柱花属]]'''　'''''Eustigma''''' Gardner & Champ.
*10. '''[[牛鼻栓属]]'''　'''''Fortunearia''''' Rehder & E. H. Wilson
*11. '''[[山白树属]]'''　'''''Sinowilsonia''''' Hemsl.
*12. '''[[金缕梅属]]'''　'''''Hamamelis''''' Gronov. ex L.
*13. '''[[银刷树属]]''' {{Sm|(北美瓶刷树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Fothergilla'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[白缕梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parrotiopsis'''''|i}} (Nied.) C. K. Schneid.
*15. '''[[波斯铁木属]]''' {{Sm|(帕罗梯木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Parrotia'''''|i}} C. A. Mey.
*16. '''[[银缕梅属]]'''　'''''Shaniodendron''''' M. B. Deng, H. T. Wei & X. Q. Wang
*17. '''[[水丝梨属]]'''　'''''Sycopsis''''' Oliv.
*18. '''[[蚊母树属]]'''　'''''Distylium''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*19. '''[[假蚊母属]]''' {{Sm|(假蚊母树属)}}　'''''Distyliopsis''''' P. K. Endress
===316. [[连香树科]]　Cercidiphyllaceae Engl.===
*1. '''[[连香树属]]'''　'''''Cercidiphyllum''''' Siebold & Zucc.
===317. [[虎皮楠科]]　Daphniphyllaceae Müll. Arg.===
*1. '''[[虎皮楠属]]''' {{Sm|(交让木属)}}　'''''Daphniphyllum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南亚虎皮楠属]]'''　'''''Goughia''''' Wight
===318. [[鼠刺科]]　Iteaceae J. Agardh===
*1. '''[[鼠刺属]]'''　'''''Itea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶鼠刺属]]''' {{Sm|(库林木属)}}　'''''Kurrimia''''' Wall. ex Meisn.
===319. [[茶藨子科]]　Grossulariaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[茶藨子属]]''' {{Sm|(茑属)}}　'''''Ribes''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑茶藨子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Botrycarpum'''''|i}} A. Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绯红茶藨子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calobotrya'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桂叶茶藨子属]]'''　'''''Cavaleriea''''' H. Lév.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香茶藨子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chrysobotrya'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲茶藨子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coreosma'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[醋栗属]]'''　'''''Grossularia''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山茶藨子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Liebichia'''''|i}} Opiz
===320. [[虎耳草科]]　Saxifragaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[虎耳草属]]'''　'''''Saxifraga''''' Tourn. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺虎耳草属]]'''　'''''Ciliaria''''' Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山羊虎耳草属]]'''　'''''Hirculus''''' Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球茎虎耳草属]]'''　'''''Lobaria''''' Haw.
*2. '''[[落新妇属]]'''　'''''Astilbe''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本落新妇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hoteia'''''|i}} C. Morren & Decne.
*3. '''[[变豆叶草属]]'''　'''''Saniculiphyllum''''' C. Y. Wu & T. C. Ku
*4. '''[[峨屏草属]]'''　'''''Tanakaea''''' Franch. & Sav.
*5. '''[[唢呐草属]]'''　'''''Mitella''''' Tourn. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五蕊唢呐草属]]'''　'''''Pectiantia''''' Raf.
*6. '''[[千母草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tolmiea'''''|i}} Torr. & A. Gray
*7. '''[[矾根属]]''' {{Sm|(肾形草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Heuchera'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[塔顶矾根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Yamala'''''|i}} Raf.
*8. '''[[饰缘花属]]''' {{Sm|(钸缘花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tellima'''''|i}} R. Br.
*9. '''[[黄水枝属]]'''　'''''Tiarella''''' L.
*10. '''[[大叶子属]]'''　'''''Astilboides''''' (Hemsl.) Engl.
*11. '''[[鬼灯檠属]]'''　'''''Rodgersia''''' A. Gray
*12. '''[[岩白菜属]]'''　'''''Bergenia''''' Moench
*13. '''[[槭叶草属]]'''　'''''Mukdenia''''' Koidz.
*14. '''[[独根草属]]'''　'''''Oresitrophe''''' Bunge
*15. '''[[亭阁草属]]'''　'''''Micranthes''''' Haw.
*16. '''[[涧边草属]]'''　'''''Peltoboykinia''''' (Engl.) H. Hara
*17. '''[[金腰属]]'''　'''''Chrysosplenium''''' Tourn. ex L.
===321. [[景天科]]　Crassulaceae J. St.-Hil.===
*1. '''[[青锁龙属]]'''　'''''Crassula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南东爪草属]]'''　'''''Combesia''''' A. Rich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青龙树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Creusa'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天舞龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Curtogyne'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤铜龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Globulea'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水晶龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gomara'''''|i}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩栖龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petrogeton'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[神刀龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rochea'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红梦龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcolipes'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青扇龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Septimia'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四合龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetraphyle'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东爪草属]]'''　'''''Tillaea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤首龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thisantha'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Toelkenia'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青塔龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Turgosea'''''|i}} Haw.
*2. '''[[天锦木属]]''' {{Sm|(天章属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Adromischus'''''|i}} Lem.
*3. '''[[伽蓝菜属]]'''　'''''Kalanchoe''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[落地生根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bryophyllum'''''|v}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灯枝伽蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Geaya'''''|i}} Costantin & Poiss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金钟伽蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kitchingia'''''|i}} Baker
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[离柱伽蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meristostylus'''''|i}} Klotzsch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舞蝶伽蓝属]]'''　'''''Vereia''''' Andrews
*4. '''[[奇峰木属]]''' {{Sm|(奇峰锦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tylecodon'''''|i}} Toelken
*5. '''[[银波木属]]''' {{Sm|(圣塔属，银波锦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cotyledon'''''|i}} Tourn. ex L.
*6. '''[[石莲属]]'''　'''''Sinocrassula''''' A. Berger
*7. '''[[孔岩草属]]'''　'''''Kungia''''' K. T. Fu
*8. '''[[瓦松属]]'''　'''''Sujingia''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*9. '''[[钝叶瓦松属]]'''　'''''Orostachys''''' (DC.) Fisch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[八宝属]]'''　'''''Hylotelephium''''' H. Ohba
*10. '''[[脐景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Umbilicus'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金粟景天属]]''' {{Sm|(对叶景天属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chiastophyllum'''''|i}} (Ledeb.) Stapf ex A. Berger
*11. '''[[合景天属]]''' {{Sm|(六瓣景天属，假景天属)}}　'''''Pseudosedum''''' (Boiss.) A. Berger
*12. '''[[红景天属]]'''　'''''Rhodiola''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四裂红景天属]]'''　'''''Chamaerhodiola''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全叶红景天属]]'''　'''''Tolmachevia''''' &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve & D. L&ouml;ve
*13. '''[[费菜属]]'''　'''''Phedimus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Asterosedum'''''|i}} Grulich
*14. '''[[长生草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sempervivum'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[神须草属]]''' {{Sm|(卷绢属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jovibarba'''''|i}} (DC.) Opiz
*15. '''[[云杉草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petrosedum'''''|i}} Grulich
*16. '''[[爱染草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aichryson'''''|i}} Webb & Berthel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爱染木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macrobia'''''|i}} (Webb & Berthel.) Kunkel
*17. '''[[魔莲花属]]''' {{Sm|(魔南景天属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Monanthes'''''|i}} Haw.
*18. '''[[莲花掌属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞甲草属，树莲花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aeonium'''''|i}} Webb & Berthel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿玉杯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Greenovia'''''|i}} Webb & Berthel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[镜狮莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Megalonium'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Kunkel
*19. '''[[玉石景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oreosedum'''''|i}} Grulich
*20. '''[[瓦莲属]]'''　'''''Rosularia''''' (DC.) Stapf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菊瓦莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chaloupkaea'''''|i}} Niederle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银星莲属]]'''　'''''Sempervivella''''' Stapf
*21. '''[[仙女杯属]]''' {{Sm|(粉叶草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dudleya'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙女棒属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stylophyllum'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*22. '''[[景天属]]'''　'''''Sedum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aectyson'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[淡红景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aithales'''''|i}} Webb & Berthel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[朝霞景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Altamiranoa'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[俄勒冈景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Breitungia'''''|i}} &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve & D. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[微梗景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cockerellia'''''|i}} (R. T. Clausen & C. H. Uhl) &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve & D. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[千代景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corynephyllum'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[碧光景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cremnophila'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[腺毛景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gormania'''''|i}} Britton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岷江景天属]]''' {{Sm|(繸叶景天属)}}　'''''Ohbaea''''' V. V. Byalt & I. V. Sokolova
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三芒景天属]]'''　'''''Triactina''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝光景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Cremnosedum'''''|i}} Kimnach & G. Lyons
*23. '''[[塔莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Villadia'''''|i}} Rose
*24. '''[[玻璃景天属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lenophyllum'''''|i}} Rose
*25. '''[[风车莲属]]''' {{Sm|(缟瓣属，风车草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Graptopetalum'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胧月莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Byrnesia'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tacitus'''''|i}} Moran
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽车莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Tacipetalum'''''|i}} C. H. Uhl
*26. '''[[紫穗莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thompsonella'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*27. '''[[拟石莲属]]''' {{Sm|(石莲掌属，石莲花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Echeveria'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玫瑰莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Courantia'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[月影莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oliveranthus'''''|i}} Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东云莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Urbinia'''''|i}} Rose
*28. '''[[厚叶莲属]]''' {{Sm|(肥天属，厚叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pachyphytum'''''|i}} Link, Klotzsch & Otto
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[群雀莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diotostemon'''''|i}} Salm-Dyck
===322. [[扯根菜科]]　Penthoraceae Rydb. ex Britton===
*1. '''[[扯根菜属]]'''　'''''Penthorum''''' Gronov. ex L.
===323. [[小二仙草科]]　Haloragaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[人鱼藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Proserpinaca'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[小二仙草属]]'''　'''''Gonocarpus''''' Thunb.
*3. '''[[狐尾藻属]]'''　'''''Myriophyllum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮狐尾藻属]]'''　'''''Burshia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉绿狐尾藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Enydria'''''|v}} Vell.
===324. [[锁阳科]]　Cynomoriaceae Endl. ex Lindl.===
*1. '''[[锁阳属]]'''　'''''Cynomorium''''' L.
==98. 葡萄目　Vitales==
===325. [[葡萄科]]　Vitaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[火筒树属]]'''　'''''Leea''''' D. Royen ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单羽火筒树属]]'''　'''''Nalagu''''' Adans.
*2. '''[[牛果藤属]]'''　'''''Nekemias''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶牛果藤属]]'''　'''''Vitaeda''''' B&ouml;rner
*3. '''[[蛇葡萄属]]'''　'''''Ampelopsis''''' Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异叶蛇葡萄属]]'''　'''''Allosampela''''' Raf.
*4. '''[[菱叶藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhoicissus'''''|i}} Planch.
*5. '''[[俞藤属]]'''　'''''Yua''''' C. L. Li
*6. '''[[地锦属]]''' {{Sm|(爬山虎属)}}　'''''Parthenocissus''''' Planch.
*7. '''[[酸蔹藤属]]'''　'''''Ampelocissus''''' Planch.
*8. '''[[葡萄属]]'''　'''''Vitis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[李葡萄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Muscadinia'''''|i}} (Planch.) Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺葡萄属]]'''　'''''Spinovitis''''' Rom. Caill.
*9. '''[[白粉藤属]]'''　'''''Cissus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦屏藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Irsiola'''''|i}} P. Browne
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶白粉藤属]]'''　'''''Rinxostylis''''' Raf.
*10. '''[[葡萄瓮属]]'''　'''''Cyphostemma''''' (Planch.) Alston
*11. '''[[大麻藤属]]'''　'''''Cayratia''''' Juss.
*12. '''[[乌蔹莓属]]'''　'''''Causonis''''' Raf.
*13. '''[[拟乌蔹莓属]]'''　'''''Pseudocayratia''''' J. Wen, L. M. Lu & Z. D. Chen
*14. '''[[崖爬藤属]]'''　'''''Tetrastigma''''' (Miq.) Planch.
==99. 蒺藜目　Zygophyllales==
===326. [[蒺藜科]]　Zygophyllaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[蒺藜属]]'''　'''''Tribulus''''' L.
*2. '''[[愈疮木属]]''' {{Sm|(愈创木属，愈伤木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Guaiacum'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[驼蹄瓣属]]'''　'''''Zygophyllum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[霸王属]]''' {{Sm|(肉蒺藜属)}}　'''''Sarcozygium''''' Bunge
*4. '''[[四合木属]]'''　'''''Tetraena''''' Maxim.
==100. 豆目　Fabales==
===327. [[豆科]]　Fabaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[紫荆属]]'''　'''''Cercis''''' L.
*2. '''[[长管豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gigasiphon'''''|i}} Drake
*3. '''[[异柱豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tylosema'''''|i}} (Schweinf.) Torre & Hillc.
*4. '''[[蝶叶豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lysiphyllum'''''|i}} (Benth.) de Wit
*5. '''[[火索藤属]]'''　'''''Phanera''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[首冠藤属]]'''　'''''Cheniella''''' R. Clark & Mackinder
*6. '''[[龙须藤属]]'''　'''''Lasiobema''''' (Korth.) Miq.
*7. '''[[羊蹄甲属]]'''　'''''Bauhinia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛蹄甲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cansenia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白花羊蹄甲属]]'''　'''''Casparia''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺托羊蹄甲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Perlebia'''''|i}} Mart.
*8. '''[[挂钟豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schotia'''''|i}} Jacq.
*9. '''[[猴花树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barnebydendron'''''|i}} J. H. Kirkbr.
*10. '''[[香漆檀属]]''' {{Sm|(香脂树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Copaifera'''''|i}} L.
*11. '''[[油楠属]]'''　'''''Sindora''''' Miq.
*12. '''[[孪叶豆属]]''' {{Sm|(孪叶苏木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hymenaea'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琥珀豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trachylobium'''''|i}} Hayne
*13. '''[[无忧花属]]'''　'''''Saraca''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度无忧花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jonesia'''''|i}} Roxb.
*14. '''[[仪花属]]'''　'''''Lysidice''''' Hance
*15. '''[[印茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Intsia'''''|i}} Thouars
*16. '''[[缅茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Afzelia'''''|i}} Sm.
*17. '''[[喃喃果属]]''' {{Sm|(喃果豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cynometra'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纶巾豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maniltoa'''''|i}} Scheff.
*18. '''[[酸豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tamarindus'''''|v}} L.
*19. '''[[璎珞木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amherstia'''''|i}} Wall.
*20. '''[[宝冠木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brownea'''''|i}} Jacq.
*21. '''[[任豆属]]''' {{Sm|(翅荚豆属)}}　'''''Zenia''''' Chun
*22. '''[[铁苏木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Apuleia'''''|i}} Mart.
*23. '''[[酸榄豆属]]''' {{Sm|(摘亚木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dialium'''''|i}} L.
*24. '''[[长角豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceratonia'''''|i}} L.
*25. '''[[顶果木属]]''' {{Sm|(顶果树属)}}　'''''Acrocarpus''''' Wight ex Arn.
*26. '''[[肥皂荚属]]'''　'''''Gymnocladus''''' Lam.
*27. '''[[皂荚属]]'''　'''''Gleditsia''''' J. Clayton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小果皂荚属]]'''　'''''Pogocybe''''' Pierre
*28. '''[[腊肠树属]]'''　'''''Cassia''''' L.
*29. '''[[决明属]]''' {{Sm|(番泻决明属)}}　'''''Senna''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adipera'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光叶决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chamaecassia'''''|i}} Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞房决明属]]'''　'''''Chamaefistula''''' (DC. ex Collad.) G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[望江南属]]'''　'''''Ditremexa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝叶决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Emelista'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅荚决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Herpetica'''''|v}} (DC.) Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双荚决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Isandrina'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[槐叶决明属]]'''　'''''Octelisia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽决明属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudocassia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄槐决明属]]'''　'''''Psilorhegma''''' (Vogel) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁刀木属]]'''　'''''Sciacassia''''' Britton
*30. '''[[山扁豆属]]'''　'''''Chamaecrista''''' Moench
*31. '''[[采木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Haematoxylum'''''|i}} L.
*32. '''[[小凤花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caesalpinia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[洋金凤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Poinciana'''''|i}} L.
*33. '''[[刺苏木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tara'''''|i}} Molina
*34. '''[[含羞云实属]]'''　'''''Hultholia''''' Gagnon & G. P. Lewis
*35. '''[[鹰叶刺属]]'''　'''''Guilandina''''' L.
*36. '''[[肉荚云实属]]'''　'''''Moullava''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扭果苏木属]]'''　'''''Cinclidocarpus''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
*37. '''[[云实属]]'''　'''''Biancaea''''' Tod.
*38. '''[[见血飞属]]'''　'''''Mezoneuron''''' Desf.
*39. '''[[南天藤属]]'''　'''''Ticanto''''' Adans.
*40. '''[[老虎刺属]]'''　'''''Pterolobium''''' R. Br. ex Wight & Arn.
*41. '''[[豹苏木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Libidibia'''''|i}} (DC.) Schltdl.
*42. '''[[松塔豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dimorphandra'''''|i}} Schott
*43. '''[[盾柱木属]]''' {{Sm|(双翼豆属)}}　'''''Peltophorum''''' (Vogel) Benth.
*44. '''[[离荚豆属]]''' {{Sm|(裂瓣苏木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schizolobium'''''|i}} Vogel
*45. '''[[扁轴木属]]''' {{Sm|(扁轴豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Parkinsonia'''''|i}} L.
*46. '''[[垂花楹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Colvillea'''''|i}} Bojer
*47. '''[[凤凰木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Delonix'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花凤凰木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aprevalia'''''|i}} Baill.
*48. '''[[格木属]]'''　'''''Erythrophleum''''' Afzel. ex R. Br.
*49. '''[[榼藤属]]'''　'''''Entada''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多叶榼藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Entadopsis'''''|i}} Britton
*50. '''[[象根豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elephantorrhiza'''''|i}} Benth.
*51. '''[[海红豆属]]'''　'''''Adenanthera''''' L.
*52. '''[[木荚豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Esclerona'''''|i}} Raf.
*53. '''[[牧豆树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Prosopis'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[平滑牧豆树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Algarobia'''''|i}} Benth.
*54. '''[[假含羞草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neptunia'''''|i}} Lour.
*55. '''[[代儿茶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dichrostachys'''''|i}} (DC.) Wight & Arn.
*56. '''[[银合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucaena'''''|v}} Benth.
*57. '''[[合欢草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Desmanthus'''''|i}} Willd.
*58. '''[[黑金檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anadenanthera'''''|i}} Speg.
*59. '''[[球花豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parkia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*60. '''[[金合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vachellia'''''|v}} Wight & Arn.
*61. '''[[香金檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parapiptadenia'''''|i}} Brenan
*62. '''[[假落腺檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudopiptadenia'''''|i}} Rauschert
*63. '''[[腺柄豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adenopodia'''''|i}} C. Presl
*64. '''[[落腺檀属]]''' {{Sm|(落腺豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Piptadenia'''''|i}} Benth.
*65. '''[[含羞草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mimosa'''''|v}} L.
*66. '''[[儿茶属]]'''　'''''Senegalia''''' Raf.
*67. '''[[茶合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mariosousa'''''|i}} Seigler & Ebinger
*68. '''[[灰合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acaciella'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*69. '''[[朱缨花属]]'''　'''''Calliandra''''' Benth.
*70. '''[[环荚合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Faidherbia'''''|i}} A. Chev.
*71. '''[[羊须合欢属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zapoteca'''''|i}} H. M. Hern.
*72. '''[[鸡髯豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cojoba'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*73. '''[[番乌木豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ebenopsis'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*74. '''[[牛蹄豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pithecellobium'''''|i}} Mart.
*75. '''[[合欢属]]'''　'''''Albizia''''' Durazz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楹树属]]'''　'''''Arthrosprion''''' Hassk.
*76. '''[[雨树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Samanea'''''|i}} (Benth.) Merr.
*77. '''[[象耳豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Enterolobium'''''|i}} Mart.
*78. '''[[印加树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Inga'''''|i}} Mill.
*79. '''[[猴耳环属]]'''　'''''Archidendron''''' F. Muell.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棋子豆属]]'''　'''''Cylindrokelupha''''' Kosterm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶合欢属]]'''　'''''Paralbizzia''''' Kosterm.
*80. '''[[箭羽楹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Paraserianthes'''''|i}} I. C. Nielsen
*81. '''[[南洋楹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Falcataria'''''|i}} (I. C. Nielsen) Barneby & J. W. Grimes
*82. '''[[相思树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acacia'''''|v}} Mill.
*83. '''[[栗豆树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Castanospermum'''''|i}} A. Cunn. ex Mudie
*84. '''[[翼齿豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pterodon'''''|i}} Vogel
*85. '''[[青李豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amburana'''''|i}} Schwacke & Taub.
*86. '''[[香脂豆属]]''' {{Sm|(香脂木豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Myroxylon'''''|i}} L. f.
*87. '''[[翅荚香槐属]]'''　'''''Platyosprion''''' Maxim.
*88. '''[[香槐属]]'''　'''''Cladrastis''''' Raf.
*89. '''[[槐属]]'''　'''''Styphnolobium''''' Schott
*90. '''[[甘蓝豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Andira'''''|i}} Lam.
*91. '''[[红豆属]]'''　'''''Ormosia''''' Jacks.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凹叶红豆属]]'''　'''''Fedorovia''''' Yakovlev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长脐红豆属]]'''　'''''Macroule''''' Pierce
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肥荚红豆属]]'''　'''''Ruddia''''' Yakovlev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茸荚红豆属]]'''　'''''Trichocyamos''''' Yakovlev
*92. '''[[彗豆属]]''' {{Sm|(珊瑚豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Templetonia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*93. '''[[丽葛树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bolusanthus'''''|i}} Harms
*94. '''[[赝靛属]]''' {{Sm|(赛靛属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Baptisia'''''|i}} Vent.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝花赝靛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ripasia'''''|i}} Raf.
*95. '''[[黄花木属]]'''　'''''Piptanthus''''' Sweet
*96. '''[[野决明属]]''' {{Sm|(黄华属)}}　'''''Thermopsis''''' R. Br.
*97. '''[[马鞍树属]]'''　'''''Maackia''''' Rupr.
*98. '''[[冬麻豆属]]'''　'''''Salweenia''''' Baker f.
*99. '''[[沙冬青属]]'''　'''''Ammopiptanthus''''' S. H. Cheng
*100. '''[[银砂槐属]]'''　'''''Ammodendron''''' Fisch. ex DC.
*101. '''[[厚果槐属]]'''　'''''Ammothamnus''''' Bunge
*102. '''[[山豆根属]]'''　'''''Euchresta''''' Benn.
*103. '''[[苦参属]]'''　'''''Sophora''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南槐属]]'''　'''''Cephalostigmaton''''' Yakovlev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果槐属]]'''　'''''Keyserlingia''''' Bunge ex Boiss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苦豆子属]]'''　'''''Radiusia''''' Rchb.
*104. '''[[南笃檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pericopsis'''''|i}} Thwaites
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油木豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Afrormosia'''''|i}} Harms
*105. '''[[金雀槐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calpurnia'''''|i}} E. Mey.
*106. '''[[水花槐属]]''' {{Sm|(花槐属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Podalyria'''''|i}} Lam. ex Willd.
*107. '''[[猪屎豆属]]'''　'''''Crotalaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多疣猪屎豆属]]'''　'''''Anisanthera''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金萼豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chrysocalyx'''''|v}} Guill. & Perr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄雀儿属]]'''　'''''Priotropis''''' Wight & Arn.
*108. '''[[罗顿豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lotononis'''''|i}} (DC.) Eckl. & Zeyh.
*109. '''[[落地豆属]]'''　'''''Rothia''''' Pers.
*110. '''[[松雀花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aspalathus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茶雀花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcophyllus'''''|i}} Thunb.
*111. '''[[羽扇豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lupinus'''''|i}} L.
*112. '''[[毒豆属]]''' {{Sm|(金链花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Laburnum'''''|i}} Fabr.
*113. '''[[腺果豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adenocarpus'''''|i}} DC.
*114. '''[[山雀花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chamaecytisus'''''|i}} Link
*115. '''[[雀叶豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cytisophyllum'''''|i}} O. Lang
*116. '''[[黑金雀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lembotropis'''''|i}} Griseb.
*117. '''[[金雀儿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cytisus'''''|i}} Desf.
*118. '''[[鹰爪豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spartium'''''|i}} L.
*119. '''[[染料木属]]''' {{Sm|(小金雀属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Genista'''''|i}} L.
*120. '''[[猬叶豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinospartum'''''|i}} (Spach) Fourr.
*121. '''[[麻帚豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Teline'''''|i}} Medik.
*122. '''[[荆豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ulex'''''|v}} L.
*123. '''[[紫穗槐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amorpha'''''|v}} L.
*124. '''[[沙苜蓿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marina'''''|i}} Liebm.
*125. '''[[丁癸草属]]'''　'''''Zornia''''' J. F. Gmel.
*126. '''[[黄檀属]]'''　'''''Dalbergia''''' L. f.
*127. '''[[合萌属]]'''　'''''Aeschynomene''''' L.
*128. '''[[链荚木属]]''' {{Sm|(链荚豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ormocarpum'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*129. '''[[坡油甘属]]'''　'''''Smithia''''' Aiton
*130. '''[[睫苞豆属]]'''　'''''Geissaspis''''' Wight & Arn.
*131. '''[[落花生属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arachis'''''|i}} L.
*132. '''[[笔花豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stylosanthes'''''|i}} Sw.
*133. '''[[紫檀属]]'''　'''''Pterocarpus''''' Jacq.
*134. '''[[刺荚豆属]]''' {{Sm|(刺片豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Centrolobium'''''|i}} Mart. ex Benth.
*135. '''[[金蝶木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tipuana'''''|i}} (Benth.) Benth.
*136. '''[[鸡血檀属]]''' {{Sm|(杂色豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Baphia'''''|i}} Afzel. ex Lodd.
*137. '''[[藤槐属]]'''　'''''Bowringia''''' Champ. ex Benth.
*138. '''[[橙花豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chorizema'''''|i}} Labill.
*139. '''[[木蓝属]]'''　'''''Indigofera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单叶木蓝属]]'''　'''''Sphaeridiophorum''''' Desv.
*140. '''[[瓜尔豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyamopsis'''''|i}} DC.
*141. '''[[双束鱼藤属]]'''　'''''Aganope''''' Miq.
*142. '''[[红皮鱼豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xeroderris'''''|i}} Roberty
*143. '''[[距瓣豆属]]''' {{Sm|(山珠豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Centrosema'''''|v}} (DC.) Benth.
*144. '''[[蝶豆属]]'''　'''''Clitoria''''' L.
*145. '''[[相思子属]]'''　'''''Abrus''''' Adans.
*146. '''[[刀豆属]]'''　'''''Canavalia''''' Adans.
*147. '''[[红玉豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Camptosema'''''|i}} Hook. & Arn.
*148. '''[[乳豆属]]'''　'''''Galactia''''' P. Browne
*149. '''[[拟大豆属]]'''　'''''Ophrestia''''' H. M. L. Forbes
*150. '''[[肿荚豆属]]'''　'''''Antheroporum''''' Gagnep.
*151. '''[[红鹦豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chadsia'''''|i}} Bojer
*152. '''[[灰毛豆属]]'''　'''''Tephrosia''''' Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗序灰毛豆属]]'''　'''''Erebinthus''''' Mitch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白灰毛豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kiesera'''''|v}} Reinw. ex Blume
*153. '''[[崖豆藤属]]'''　'''''Millettia''''' Wight & Arn.
*154. '''[[水黄皮属]]'''　'''''Pongamia''''' Adans.
*155. '''[[干花豆属]]'''　'''''Fordia''''' Hemsl.
*156. '''[[鱼藤属]]'''　'''''Derris''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟鱼藤属]]'''　'''''Paraderris''''' (Miq.) R. Geesink
*157. '''[[短翅鱼藤属]]'''　'''''Brachypterum''''' (Wight & Arn.) Benth.
*158. '''[[土圞儿属]]'''　'''''Apios''''' Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉色土圞儿属]]'''　'''''Cyrtotropis''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中华豆属]]'''　'''''Sinolegumenea''''' Y. K. Yang, L. H. Liu & J. K. Wu
*159. '''[[宿苞豆属]]'''　'''''Shuteria''''' Wight & Arn.
*160. '''[[旋花豆属]]'''　'''''Cochlianthus''''' Benth.
*161. '''[[油麻藤属]]'''　'''''Mucuna''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鬃果豆属]]'''　'''''Carpopogon''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[椭圆叶油麻藤属]]'''　'''''Negretia''''' Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果油麻藤属]]'''　'''''Pillera''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黧豆属]]'''　'''''Stizolobium''''' P. Browne
*162. '''[[笐子梢属]]''' {{Sm|([艹／杭]子梢属)}}　'''''Campylotropis''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花笐子梢属]]'''　'''''Phlebosprium''''' Jungh.
*163. '''[[鸡眼草属]]'''　'''''Kummerowia''''' Schindl.
*164. '''[[胡枝子属]]'''　'''''Lespedeza''''' Michx.
*165. '''[[小槐花属]]'''　'''''Ohwia''''' H. Ohashi
*166. '''[[排钱树属]]''' {{Sm|(排钱草属)}}　'''''Phyllodium''''' Desv.
*167. '''[[假木豆属]]'''　'''''Dendrolobium''''' (Wight & Arn.) Benth.
*168. '''[[葫芦茶属]]'''　'''''Tadehagi''''' H. Ohashi
*169. '''[[两节豆属]]''' {{Sm|(二节豆属)}}　'''''Aphyllodium''''' (DC.) Gagnep.
*170. '''[[长柄山蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Hylodesmum''''' H. Ohashi & R. R. Mill
*171. '''[[饿蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Ototropis''''' Nees
*172. '''[[锥蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Sunhangia''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*173. '''[[瓦子草属]]'''　'''''Puhuaea''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*174. '''[[假节蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Pseudarthria''''' Wight & Arn.
*175. '''[[二岐山蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Bouffordia''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*176. '''[[拿身草属]]'''　'''''Sohmaea''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*177. '''[[链荚豆属]]'''　'''''Alysicarpus''''' Neck. ex Desv.
*178. '''[[山蚂蟥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Desmodium'''''|v}} Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲山蚂蟥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meibomia'''''|v}} Heist. ex Fabr.
*179. '''[[绒毛山蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Polhillides''''' (Schindl.) H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*180. '''[[肾叶山蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Huangtcia''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*181. '''[[三叉刺属]]'''　'''''Trifidacanthus''''' Merr.
*182. '''[[长柄荚属]]'''　'''''Mecopus''''' Benn.
*183. '''[[大叶山蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Pleurolobus''''' J. St.-Hil.
*184. '''[[舞草属]]'''　'''''Codariocalyx''''' Hassk.
*185. '''[[假地豆属]]'''　'''''Grona''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三点金属]]'''　'''''Nicolsonia''''' DC.
*186. '''[[雅蚂蟥属]]'''　'''''Tateishia''''' H. Ohashi & K. Ohashi
*187. '''[[密子豆属]]'''　'''''Pycnospora''''' R. Br. ex Wight & Arn.
*188. '''[[狸尾豆属]]'''　'''''Uraria''''' Desv.
*189. '''[[算珠豆属]]'''　'''''Urariopsis''''' Schindl.
*190. '''[[蝙蝠草属]]'''　'''''Christia''''' Moench
*191. '''[[须弥葛属]]'''　'''''Haymondia''''' A. N. Egan & B. Pan bis
*192. '''[[藤珊豆属]]''' {{Sm|(珊瑚豌豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kennedia'''''|i}} Vent.
*193. '''[[紫珊豆属]]''' {{Sm|(一叶豆属，哈登柏豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hardenbergia'''''|i}} Benth.
*194. '''[[闭荚藤属]]'''　'''''Mastersia''''' Benth.
*195. '''[[巴豆藤属]]'''　'''''Craspedolobium''''' Harms
*196. '''[[紫矿属]]''' {{Sm|(紫铆属)}}　'''''Butea''''' Roxb. ex Willd.
*197. '''[[密花豆属]]'''　'''''Spatholobus''''' Hassk.
*198. '''[[西藏紫矿属]]'''　'''''Meizotropis''''' Voigt
*199. '''[[千斤拔属]]'''　'''''Flemingia''''' Roxb. ex W. T. Aiton
*200. '''[[木豆属]]'''　'''''Cajanus''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虫豆属]]'''　'''''Atylosia''''' Wight & Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔓草虫豆属]]'''　'''''Cantharospermum''''' Wight & Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬毛虫豆属]]'''　'''''Endomallus''''' Gagnep.
*201. '''[[鸡头薯属]]''' {{Sm|(雀脷珠属)}}　'''''Eriosema''''' (DC.) Desv.
*202. '''[[鹿藿属]]'''　'''''Rhynchosia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[淡红鹿藿属]]'''　'''''Phyllomatia''''' (Wight & Arn.) Benth.
*203. '''[[野扁豆属]]'''　'''''Dunbaria''''' Wight & Arn.
*204. '''[[镰瓣豆属]]'''　'''''Dysolobium''''' (Benth.) Prain
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台豆属]]'''　'''''Dolichovigna''''' Hayata
*205. '''[[刺桐属]]'''　'''''Erythrina''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东非刺桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chirocalyx'''''|i}} Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沼泽刺桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Duchassaingia'''''|i}} Walp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果刺桐属]]'''　'''''Hypaphorus''''' Hassk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[塞内加尔刺桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macrocymbium'''''|i}} Walp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[象牙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stenotropis'''''|i}} Hassk.
*206. '''[[四棱豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Psophocarpus'''''|i}} Neck. ex DC.
*207. '''[[翡翠葛属]]''' {{Sm|(碧玉藤属，圆萼藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Strongylodon'''''|i}} Vogel
*208. '''[[硬皮豆属]]'''　'''''Macrotyloma''''' (Wight & Arn.) Verdc.
*209. '''[[镰扁豆属]]'''　'''''Dolichos''''' L.
*210. '''[[扁豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lablab'''''|i}} Adans.
*211. '''[[毒扁豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Physostigma'''''|i}} Balf.
*212. '''[[豇豆属]]'''　'''''Vigna''''' Savi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤豆属]]'''　'''''Azukia''''' Takah. ex Ohwi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滨豇豆属]]'''　'''''Callicysthus''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野豇豆属]]'''　'''''Plectrotropis''''' Schumach.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿豆属]]'''　'''''Rudua''''' F. Maek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地豇豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Voandzeia'''''|i}} Thouars
*213. '''[[菜豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phaseolus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[荷包豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lipusa'''''|i}} Alef.
*214. '''[[蜗牛藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochliasanthus'''''|i}} Trew
*215. '''[[大翼豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macroptilium'''''|i}} (Benth.) Urb.
*216. '''[[硬毛宿苞豆属]]'''　'''''Harashuteria''''' K. Ohashi & H. Ohashi
*217. '''[[苦葛属]]'''　'''''Toxicopueraria''''' A. N. Egan & B. Pan bis
*218. '''[[长序大豆属]]''' {{Sm|(爪哇大豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neonotonia'''''|v}} J. A. Lackey
*219. '''[[琼豆属]]'''　'''''Teyleria''''' Backer
*220. '''[[葛扁豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neorautanenia'''''|i}} Schinz
*221. '''[[豆薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachyrhizus'''''|i}} Rich. ex DC.
*222. '''[[毛蔓豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calopogonium'''''|v}} Desv.
*223. '''[[华扁豆属]]'''　'''''Sinodolichos''''' Verdc.
*224. '''[[草葛属]]'''　'''''Neustanthus''''' Benth.
*225. '''[[土黄芪属]]'''　'''''Nogra''''' Merr.
*226. '''[[葛属]]'''　'''''Pueraria''''' DC.
*227. '''[[大豆属]]'''　'''''Glycine''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[烟豆属]]'''　'''''Leptocyamus''''' Benth.
*228. '''[[两型豆属]]'''　'''''Amphicarpaea''''' Elliott ex Nutt.
*229. '''[[软荚豆属]]'''　'''''Teramnus''''' P. Browne
*230. '''[[山黑豆属]]'''　'''''Dumasia''''' DC.
*231. '''[[柏油豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bituminaria'''''|i}} Heist. ex Fabr.
*232. '''[[补骨脂属]]'''　'''''Cullen''''' Medik.
*233. '''[[苞护豆属]]'''　'''''Phylacium''''' Benn.
*234. '''[[田菁属]]'''　'''''Sesbania''''' Adans.
*235. '''[[斧荚豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Securigera'''''|v}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小冠花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Callistephana'''''|v}} Fourr.
*236. '''[[马蹄豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hippocrepis'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝎子旃那属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Emerus'''''|i}} Mill.
*237. '''[[岩豆属]]''' {{Sm|(绒毛花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anthyllis'''''|i}} L.
*238. '''[[伏囊豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tripodion'''''|i}} Medik.
*239. '''[[矛豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dorycnium'''''|i}} Mill.
*240. '''[[百脉根属]]'''　'''''Lotus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喙百脉根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heinekenia'''''|i}} Webb ex Christ
*241. '''[[翅荚百脉根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetragonolobus'''''|i}} Scop.
*242. '''[[鸟爪豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ornithopus'''''|i}} L.
*243. '''[[冠花豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coronilla'''''|i}} L.
*244. '''[[毒鼠豆属]]''' {{Sm|(格力豆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gliricidia'''''|i}} Kunth
*245. '''[[刺槐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Robinia'''''|v}} L.
*246. '''[[甘草属]]'''　'''''Glycyrrhiza''''' L.
*247. '''[[鸡血树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adinobotrys'''''|i}} Dunn
*248. '''[[耀花豆属]]'''　'''''Sarcodum''''' Lour.
*249. '''[[南海藤属]]'''　'''''Nanhaia''''' J. Compton & Schrire
*250. '''[[夏藤属]]'''　'''''Wisteriopsis''''' J. Compton & Schrire
*251. '''[[鸡血藤属]]'''　'''''Callerya''''' Endl.
*252. '''[[绢血藤属]]'''　'''''Whitfordiodendron''''' Elmer
*253. '''[[猪腰豆属]]'''　'''''Padbruggea''''' Miq.
*254. '''[[紫藤属]]'''　'''''Wisteria''''' Nutt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花紫藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rehsonia'''''|i}} Stritch
*255. '''[[骆驼刺属]]'''　'''''Alhagi''''' Gagnebin
*256. '''[[旱岩黄芪属]]'''　'''''Sartoria''''' Boiss. & Heldr.
*257. '''[[岩黄芪属]]''' {{Sm|(岩黄耆属)}}　'''''Hedysarum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮岩黄芪属]]'''　'''''Echinolobium''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏豆属]]'''　'''''Stracheya''''' Benth.
*258. '''[[刺枝豆属]]'''　'''''Eversmannia''''' Bunge
*259. '''[[羊柴属]]''' {{Sm|(山竹子属，扫帚木属)}}　'''''Corethrodendron''''' Fisch. & Basiner
*260. '''[[驴食豆属]]''' {{Sm|(驴食草属，驴豆属)}}　'''''Onobrychis''''' Mill.
*261. '''[[锦鸡儿属]]'''　'''''Caragana''''' Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽豆属]]'''　'''''Calophaca''''' Fisch. ex DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铃铛刺属]]'''　'''''Halimodendron''''' Fisch. ex DC.
*262. '''[[旱雀豆属]]'''　'''''Chesniella''''' Boriss.
*263. '''[[米口袋属]]'''　'''''Gueldenstaedtia''''' Fisch.
*264. '''[[高山豆属]]'''　'''''Tibetia''''' (Ali) H. P. Tsui
*265. '''[[雀儿豆属]]'''　'''''Chesneya''''' Lindl. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云雀豆属]]'''　'''''Spongiocarpella''''' Yakovlev & N. Ulziykh.
*266. '''[[棘豆属]]'''　'''''Oxytropis''''' DC.
*267. '''[[齿荚豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Biserrula'''''|i}} L.
*268. '''[[黄芪属]]''' {{Sm|(黄耆属)}}　'''''Astragalus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簇毛黄芪属]]'''　'''''Ailuroschia''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长尾黄芪属]]'''　'''''Alopecias''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喜沙黄芪属]]'''　'''''Ammodytes''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网叶黄芪属]]'''　'''''Ankylobus''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山黄芪属]]'''　'''''Astragalina''''' Bubani
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度黄芪属]]'''　'''''Atelophragma''''' Rydb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[留土黄芪属]]'''　'''''Aulosema''''' Walp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[环荚黄芪属]]'''　'''''Contortuplicata''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薇黄芪属]]'''　'''''Craccina''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爆裂黄芪属]]'''　'''''Cryptorrhynchus''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双盾黄芪属]]'''　'''''Didymopelta''''' Regel & Schmalh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绵果黄芪属]]'''　'''''Lithoon''''' Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[具囊黄芪属]]'''　'''''Myobroma''''' (Steven) Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秦岭黄芪属]]''' {{Sm|(狄氏豆属)}}　'''''Neodielsia''''' Harms
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇荚黄芪属]]'''　'''''Ophiocarpus''''' (Bunge) Ikonn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖舌黄芪属]]'''　'''''Oxyglottis''''' (Bunge) Nevski
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[广布黄芪属]]'''　'''''Phaca''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钻形黄芪属]]'''　'''''Philammos''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斜茎黄芪属]]'''　'''''Solenotus''''' (Steven) Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纹茎黄芪属]]'''　'''''Tium''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊刺黄芪属]]'''　'''''Tragacantha''''' Mill.
*269. '''[[沙耀豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Swainsona'''''|i}} Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙鹦豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Willdampia'''''|i}} A. S. George
*270. '''[[鹦喙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clianthus'''''|i}} Sol. ex Lindl.
*271. '''[[蔓黄芪属]]''' {{Sm|(膨果豆属)}}　'''''Phyllolobium''''' Fisch.
*272. '''[[鱼鳔槐属]]'''　'''''Colutea''''' L.
*273. '''[[南鳔豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lessertia'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纸荚豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sutherlandia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*274. '''[[苦马豆属]]'''　'''''Sphaerophysa''''' DC.
*275. '''[[无叶豆属]]'''　'''''Eremosparton''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*276. '''[[紫雀花属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝雀花属)}}　'''''Parochetus''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
*277. '''[[山羊豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galega'''''|i}} L.
*278. '''[[鹰嘴豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cicer'''''|i}} L.
*279. '''[[芒柄花属]]'''　'''''Ononis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄芒柄花属]]'''　'''''Natrix''''' Moench
*280. '''[[苜蓿属]]'''　'''''Medicago''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青海苜蓿属]]'''　'''''Kamiella''''' Vassilcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天蓝苜蓿属]]'''　'''''Medicula''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花苜蓿属]]''' {{Sm|(扁蓿豆属)}}　'''''Melilotoides''''' Heist. ex Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木本苜蓿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhodusia'''''|i}} Vassilcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小苜蓿属]]'''　'''''Spirocarpus''''' Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔荚苜蓿属]]'''　'''''Trifillum''''' Medik.
*281. '''[[胡卢巴属]]'''　'''''Trigonella''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝胡卢巴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trifoliastrum'''''|v}} Moench
*282. '''[[草木樨属]]'''　'''''Melilotus''''' (L.) Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度草木樨属]]'''　'''''Sertula''''' Kuntze
*283. '''[[车轴草属]]'''　'''''Trifolium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草原车轴草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chrysaspis'''''|i}} Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狐尾车轴草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triphylloides'''''|i}} Ponted. ex Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[延边车轴草属]]'''　'''''Ursia''''' Vassilcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草莓车轴草属]]'''　'''''Xerosphaera''''' Soják
*284. '''[[野豌豆属]]'''　'''''Vicia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小巢菜属]]'''　'''''Endiusa''''' Alef.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四籽野豌豆属]]'''　'''''Ervum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蚕豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Faba'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[褐毛野豌豆属]]'''　'''''Hypechusa''''' Alef.
*285. '''[[兵豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lens'''''|i}} Mill.
*286. '''[[山黧豆属]]''' {{Sm|(香豌豆属)}}　'''''Lathyrus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草山黧豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anurus'''''|i}} C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叶轴香豌豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aphaca'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[家山黧豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cicercula'''''|i}} Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线叶山黧豆属]]'''　'''''Orobus''''' L.
*287. '''[[豌豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pisum'''''|i}} L.
===328. [[海人树科]]　Surianaceae Arn.===
*1. '''[[海人树属]]'''　'''''Suriana''''' L.
===329. [[远志科]]　Polygalaceae Hoffmanns. & Link===
*1. '''[[黄叶树属]]'''　'''''Xanthophyllum''''' Roxb.
*2. '''[[蝉翼藤属]]'''　'''''Securidaca''''' L.
*3. '''[[鳞叶草属]]''' {{Sm|(寄生鳞叶草属)}}　'''''Epirixanthes''''' Blume
*4. '''[[齿果草属]]'''　'''''Salomonia''''' Lour.
*5. '''[[小扁豆属]]''' {{Sm|(异翅果属)}}　'''''Heterosamara''''' Kuntze
*6. '''[[黄杨远志属]]'''　'''''Polygaloides''''' Haller
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[荷包山桂花属]]'''　'''''Cratalaria''''' H. Lév.
*7. '''[[美远志属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Senega'''''|v}} (DC.) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[束花远志属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pylostachya'''''|v}} Raf.
*8. '''[[远志属]]'''　'''''Polygala''''' L.
==101. 蔷薇目　Rosales==
===330. [[蔷薇科]]　Rosaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[蚊子草属]]'''　'''''Filipendula''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红蚊子草属]]'''　'''''Thecanisia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旋果蚊子草属]]'''　'''''Ulmaria''''' Mill.
*2. '''[[悬钩子属]]'''　'''''Rubus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[梨叶悬钩子属]]'''　'''''Ametron''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茅莓属]]'''　'''''Ampomele''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[覆盆子属]]'''　'''''Batidea''''' (Dumort.) Greene
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄藨属]]'''　'''''Calyctenium''''' Greene
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兴安悬钩子属]]'''　'''''Chamaemorus''''' Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗叶悬钩子属]]'''　'''''Cumbata''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匍匐莓属]]'''　'''''Cylactis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[露珠莓属]]'''　'''''Dalibarda''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲木莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Genevieria'''''|i}} Gand.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北悬钩子属]]'''　'''''Manteia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美花莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rubacer'''''|i}} Rydb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沼黑莓属]]'''　'''''Selnorition''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[飞羽木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fallugia'''''|i}} Endl.
*4. '''[[路边青属]]'''　'''''Geum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽叶花属]]'''　'''''Acomastylis''''' Greene
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无尾果属]]'''　'''''Coluria''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[太行花属]]'''　'''''Taihangia''''' T. T. Yu & C. L. Li
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[林石草属]]'''　'''''Waldsteinia''''' Willd.
*5. '''[[马蹄黄属]]'''　'''''Spenceria''''' Trimen
*6. '''[[龙牙草属]]''' {{Sm|(龙芽草属)}}　'''''Agrimonia''''' L.
*7. '''[[多蕊地榆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Poterium'''''|i}} L.
*8. '''[[地榆属]]'''　'''''Sanguisorba''''' L.
*9. '''[[芒刺果属]]''' {{Sm|(猬莓属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acaena'''''|i}} Mutis ex L.
*10. '''[[蔷薇属]]'''　'''''Rosa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硕苞蔷薇属]]'''　'''''Ernestella''''' Germ.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单叶蔷薇属]]'''　'''''Hulthemia''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异味蔷薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laggeria'''''|i}} Gand.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[缫丝花属]]'''　'''''Platyrhodon''''' Hurst
*11. '''[[藏莓草属]]'''　'''''Dryadanthe''''' Endl.
*12. '''[[莓陵菜属]]'''　'''''Fragariastrum''''' Heist. ex Fabr.
*13. '''[[委陵菜属]]'''　'''''Potentilla''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇莓属]]'''　'''''Duchesnea''''' Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小果委陵菜属]]'''　'''''Tridophyllum''''' Neck. ex Greene
*14. '''[[蕨麻属]]'''　'''''Argentina''''' Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白莓草属]]'''　'''''Piletophyllum''''' (Soják) Soják
*15. '''[[草莓属]]'''　'''''Fragaria''''' L.
*16. '''[[金露梅属]]'''　'''''Dasiphora''''' Raf.
*17. '''[[绵刺属]]'''　'''''Potaninia''''' Maxim.
*18. '''[[短蕊山莓草属]]'''　'''''Chamaecallis''''' Smedmark
*19. '''[[石陵菜属]]'''　'''''Drymocallis''''' Fourr. ex Rydb.
*20. '''[[地蔷薇属]]'''　'''''Chamaerhodos''''' Bunge
*21. '''[[山莓草属]]'''　'''''Sibbaldia''''' L.
*22. '''[[毛莓草属]]'''　'''''Sibbaldianthe''''' Juz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸡冠茶属]]'''　'''''Schistophyllidium''''' (Juz. ex Fed.) Ikonn.
*23. '''[[臭扁麻属]]'''　'''''Farinopsis''''' Chrtek & Soják
*24. '''[[沼委陵菜属]]'''　'''''Comarum''''' L.
*25. '''[[羽衣草属]]'''　'''''Alchemilla''''' L.
*26. '''[[仙女木属]]'''　'''''Dryas''''' L.
*27. '''[[山红木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cercocarpus'''''|i}} Kunth
*28. '''[[风箱果属]]'''　'''''Physocarpus''''' (Cambess.) Raf.
*29. '''[[绣线梅属]]'''　'''''Neillia''''' D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野珠兰属]]''' {{Sm|(小米空木属)}}　'''''Stephanandra''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*30. '''[[白鹃梅属]]'''　'''''Exochorda''''' Lindl.
*31. '''[[扁核木属]]'''　'''''Prinsepia''''' Royle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕤核属]]'''　'''''Sinoplagiospermum''''' Rauschert
*32. '''[[鸡麻属]]'''　'''''Rhodotypos''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*33. '''[[棣棠属]]''' {{Sm|(棣棠花属)}}　'''''Kerria''''' DC.
*34. '''[[李属]]'''　'''''Prunus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桃李属]]'''　'''''+ Amygdalopersica''''' L. L. Daniel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桃属]]'''　'''''Amygdalus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杏属]]'''　'''''Armeniaca''''' Scop.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丁香樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceraseidos'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[樱属]]'''　'''''Cerasus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桂樱属]]'''　'''''Lauro-cerasus''''' Tourn. ex Duhamel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[榆叶梅属]]'''　'''''Louiseania''''' Carrière
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭樱属]]'''　'''''Maddenia''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[郁李属]]'''　'''''Microcerasus''''' Webb & Berthel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶樱桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Padellus'''''|i}} Vassilcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[稠李属]]'''　'''''Padus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臀果木属]]'''　'''''Pygeum''''' Gaertn.
*35. '''[[珍珠梅属]]'''　'''''Sorbaria''''' (Ser. ex DC.) A. Braun
*36. '''[[绣珠梅属]]''' {{Sm|(全盘花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Holodiscus'''''|i}} (K. Koch) Maxim.
*37. '''[[鸡爪梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Luetkea'''''|i}} Bong.
*38. '''[[假升麻属]]'''　'''''Aruncus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贡山假升麻属]]'''　'''''Pleiosepalum''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*39. '''[[绣线菊属]]'''　'''''Spiraea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珍珠绣线菊属]]'''　'''''Awayus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[塔序绣线菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Drimopogon'''''|i}} Raf.
*40. '''[[鲜卑花属]]'''　'''''Sibiraea''''' Maxim.
*41. '''[[火棘属]]'''　'''''Pyracantha''''' M. Roem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全缘火棘属]]'''　'''''Sportella''''' Hance
*42. '''[[唐棣属]]'''　'''''Amelanchier''''' Medik.
*43. '''[[欧楂属]]''' {{Sm|(欧海棠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mespilus'''''|i}} L.
*44. '''[[山楂属]]'''　'''''Crataegus''''' L.
*45. '''[[小石积属]]'''　'''''Osteomeles''''' Lindl.
*46. '''[[牛筋条属]]'''　'''''Dichotomanthes''''' Kurz
*47. '''[[榅桲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cydonia'''''|i}} Mill.
*48. '''[[落叶石楠属]]'''　'''''Pourthiaea''''' Decne.
*49. '''[[涩石楠属]]''' {{Sm|(涩果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aronia'''''|i}} Medik.
*50. '''[[白花楸属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aria'''''|i}} (Pers.) Host
*51. '''[[木瓜属]]'''　'''''Pseudocydonia''''' (C. K. Schneid.) C. K. Schneid.
*52. '''[[木瓜海棠属]]'''　'''''Chaenomeles''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本海棠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudochaenomeles'''''|i}} Carrière
*53. '''[[花楸海棠属]]'''　'''''Macromeles''''' Koidz.
*54. '''[[多依属]]''' {{Sm|(栘&#144447;属)}}　'''''Docynia''''' Decne.
*55. '''[[苹果属]]'''　'''''Malus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西蜀海棠属]]'''　'''''Prameles''''' Rushforth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花叶海棠属]]'''　'''''Sinomalus''''' Koidz.
*56. '''[[红果树属]]'''　'''''Stranvaesia''''' Lindl.
*57. '''[[石楠属]]'''　'''''Photinia''''' Lindl.
*58. '''[[石斑木属]]'''　'''''Rhaphiolepis''''' Lindl.
*59. '''[[枇杷属]]'''　'''''Eriobotrya''''' Lindl.
*60. '''[[栒子属]]'''　'''''Cotoneaster''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全缘栒子属]]'''　'''''Ostinia''''' Clairv.
*61. '''[[梨属]]'''　'''''Pyrus''''' L.
*62. '''[[水榆属]]'''　'''''Micromeles''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棕脉水榆属]]'''　'''''Dunnaria''''' Rushforth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[开云水榆属]]'''　'''''Griffitharia''''' Rushforth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多蕊石灰树属]]'''　'''''Pleiosorbus''''' Li H. Zhou & C. Y. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇缅水榆属]]'''　'''''Thomsonaria''''' Rushforth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果水榆属]]'''　'''''Wilsonaria''''' Rushforth
*63. '''[[花楸属]]'''　'''''Sorbus''''' L.
===331. [[胡颓子科]]　Elaeagnaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[沙棘属]]'''　'''''Hippophae''''' L.
*2. '''[[野牛果属]]''' {{Sm|(水牛果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Shepherdia'''''|i}} Nutt.
*3. '''[[胡颓子属]]'''　'''''Elaeagnus''''' L.
===332. [[鼠李科]]　Rhamnaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[扁果藤属]]'''　'''''Smythea''''' Seem. ex A. Gray
*2. '''[[翼核果属]]''' {{Sm|(翼核木属)}}　'''''Ventilago''''' Gaertn.
*3. '''[[杜茎李属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maesopsis'''''|i}} Engl.
*4. '''[[雀梅藤属]]'''　'''''Sageretia''''' Brongn.
*5. '''[[对刺藤属]]'''　'''''Scutia''''' (Comm. ex DC.) Brongn.
*6. '''[[裸芽鼠李属]]'''　'''''Frangula''''' Mill.
*7. '''[[鼠李属]]'''　'''''Rhamnus''''' L.
*8. '''[[小勾儿茶属]]'''　'''''Berchemiella''''' Nakai
*9. '''[[勾儿茶属]]'''　'''''Berchemia''''' Neck. ex DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁包金属]]'''　'''''Girtanneria''''' Neck. ex Raf.
*10. '''[[猫乳属]]'''　'''''Rhamnella''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苞叶木属]]'''　'''''Chaydaia''''' Pit.
*11. '''[[蔓枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ampelozizyphus'''''|i}} Ducke
*12. '''[[咀签属]]'''　'''''Gouania''''' Jacq.
*13. '''[[枳椇属]]''' {{Sm|(拐枣属)}}　'''''Hovenia''''' Thunb.
*14. '''[[马甲子属]]''' {{Sm|(铜钱树属)}}　'''''Paliurus''''' Mill.
*15. '''[[枣属]]'''　'''''Ziziphus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇刺枣属]]'''　'''''Mansana''''' J. F. Gmel.
*16. '''[[蛇藤属]]'''　'''''Colubrina''''' Rich. ex Brongn.
*17. '''[[美洲茶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceanothus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[聚花美洲茶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Forrestia'''''|i}} Raf.
*18. '''[[麦珠子属]]'''　'''''Alphitonia''''' Reissek ex Endl.
*19. '''[[锚刺棘属]]''' {{Sm|(筒萼木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Colletia'''''|i}} Comm. ex Juss.
===333. [[榆科]]　Ulmaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[全叶榆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Holoptelea'''''|i}} Planch.
*2. '''[[刺榆属]]'''　'''''Hemiptelea''''' Planch.
*3. '''[[榉属]]'''　'''''Zelkova''''' Spach
*4. '''[[榆属]]'''　'''''Ulmus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长序榆属]]'''　'''''Chaetoptelea''''' Liebm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[榔榆属]]'''　'''''Microptelea''''' Spach
===334. [[大麻科]]　Cannabaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[糙叶树属]]'''　'''''Aphananthe''''' Planch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇糙叶树属]]'''　'''''Galumpita''''' Blume
*2. '''[[白颜树属]]'''　'''''Gironniera''''' Gaudich.
*3. '''[[大麻属]]'''　'''''Cannabis''''' L.
*4. '''[[葎草属]]'''　'''''Humulus''''' L.
*5. '''[[朴属]]'''　'''''Celtis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南洋朴属]]'''　'''''Solenostigma''''' Endl.
*6. '''[[山黄麻属]]'''　'''''Trema''''' Lour.
*7. '''[[青檀属]]''' {{Sm|(翼朴属)}}　'''''Pteroceltis''''' Maxim.
*8. '''[[刺朴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chaetachme'''''|i}} Planch.
===335. [[桑科]]　Moraceae Gaudich.===
*1. '''[[橙桑属]]'''　'''''Maclura''''' Nutt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柘属]]'''　'''''Cudrania''''' Trécul
*2. '''[[波罗蜜属]]''' {{Sm|(桂木属)}}　'''''Artocarpus''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*3. '''[[桑属]]'''　'''''Morus''''' L.
*4. '''[[金油木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Milicia'''''|i}} Sim
*5. '''[[鹊肾树属]]'''　'''''Streblus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双果桑属]]'''　'''''Dimerocarpus''''' Gagnep.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尾叶刺桑属]]'''　'''''Diplocos''''' Bureau
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叶被木属]]''' {{Sm|(酒饼树属)}}　'''''Phyllochlamys''''' Bureau
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斧柄桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudomorus'''''|i}} Bureau
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假鹊肾树属]]'''　'''''Pseudostreblus''''' Bureau
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺桑属]]'''　'''''Pseudotrophis''''' Warb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂叶刺桑属]]'''　'''''Taxotrophis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[米扬噎属]]'''　'''''Teonongia''''' Stapf
*6. '''[[水蛇麻属]]''' {{Sm|(桑草属)}}　'''''Fatoua''''' Gaudich.
*7. '''[[落叶花桑属]]'''　'''''Allaeanthus''''' Thwaites
*8. '''[[牛筋藤属]]'''　'''''Malaisia''''' Blanco
*9. '''[[构属]]'''　'''''Broussonetia''''' L'Hér. ex Vent.
*10. '''[[非洲面包树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Treculia'''''|i}} Decne. ex Trécul
*11. '''[[玛雅果属]]''' {{Sm|(饱食桑属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brosimum'''''|i}} Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Piratinera'''''|i}} Aubl.
*12. '''[[乳蛇桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galactodendrum'''''|i}} Humb. & Bonpl.
*13. '''[[鳞桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trilepisium'''''|i}} Thouars
*14. '''[[琉桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dorstenia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭琉桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kosaria'''''|i}} Forssk.
*15. '''[[榕属]]'''　'''''Ficus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棱果榕属]]'''　'''''Cystogyne''''' Gasp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[餐盘榕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dammaropsis'''''|i}} Warb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扇叶榕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erythrogyne'''''|i}} Vis. ex Gasp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对叶榕属]]'''　'''''Gonosuke''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度榕属]]'''　'''''Macrophthalma''''' Gasp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗叶榕属]]'''　'''''Necalistis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白肉榕属]]'''　'''''Pharmacosycea''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光叶榕属]]'''　'''''Pogonotrophe''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[聚果榕属]]'''　'''''Sycomorus''''' Gasp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金钱榕属]]'''　'''''Synoecia''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果榕属]]'''　'''''Tremotis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薜荔属]]'''　'''''Varinga''''' Raf.
*16. '''[[见血封喉属]]''' {{Sm|(箭毒木属)}}　'''''Antiaris''''' Lesch.
===336. [[荨麻科]]　Urticaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[藤麻属]]'''　'''''Procris''''' Comm. ex Juss.
*2. '''[[赤车属]]'''　'''''Pellionia''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔓赤车属]]'''　'''''Nirwamia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[吐烟花属]]'''　'''''Pellea''''' Hook. f.
*3. '''[[楼梯草属]]'''　'''''Elatostema''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[渐尖楼梯草属]]'''　'''''Langeveldia''''' Gaudich.
*4. '''[[冷水花属]]'''　'''''Pilea''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长穗冷水花属]]'''　'''''Aboriella''''' Bennet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[透茎冷水花属]]'''　'''''Adike''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮冷水花属]]'''　'''''Dubrueilia''''' Gaudich.
*5. '''[[假楼梯草属]]'''　'''''Lecanthus''''' Wedd.
*6. '''[[五萼冷水花属]]'''　'''''Achudemia''''' Blume
*7. '''[[头序冷水花属]]'''　'''''Metapilea''''' W. T. Wang
*8. '''[[翅艾麻属]]'''　'''''Laportea''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火焰艾麻属]]'''　'''''Fleuryopsis''''' Opiz
*9. '''[[红小麻属]]'''　'''''Fleurya''''' Gaudich.
*10. '''[[锥头麻属]]'''　'''''Poikilospermum''''' Zipp. ex Miq.
*11. '''[[蝎子草属]]'''　'''''Girardinia''''' Gaudich.
*12. '''[[火麻树属]]'''　'''''Dendrocnide''''' Miq.
*13. '''[[艾麻属]]'''　'''''Sceptrocnide''''' Maxim.
*14. '''[[花点草属]]'''　'''''Nanocnide''''' Blume
*15. '''[[征镒麻属]]'''　'''''Zhengyia''''' T. Deng, D. G. Zhang & H. Sun
*16. '''[[荨麻属]]'''　'''''Urtica''''' L.
*17. '''[[水丝麻属]]'''　'''''Maoutia''''' Wedd.
*18. '''[[四脉麻属]]'''　'''''Leucosyke''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
*19. '''[[伞树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Musanga'''''|i}} C. Sm. ex R. Br.
*20. '''[[号角树属]]''' {{Sm|(轻桑属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cecropia'''''|i}} Loefl.
*21. '''[[墙草属]]'''　'''''Parietaria''''' L.
*22. '''[[金钱麻属]]''' {{Sm|(绿珠草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Soleirolia'''''|i}} Gaudich.
*23. '''[[单蕊麻属]]'''　'''''Droguetia''''' Gaudich.
*24. '''[[紫麻属]]'''　'''''Oreocnide''''' Miq.
*25. '''[[微柱麻属]]'''　'''''Chamabainia''''' Wight
*26. '''[[糯米团属]]''' {{Sm|(蔓苎麻属)}}　'''''Gonostegia''''' Turcz.
*27. '''[[雾水葛属]]'''　'''''Pouzolzia''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红雾水葛属]]'''　'''''Leptocnide''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单性雾水葛属]]'''　'''''Margarocarpus''''' Wedd.
*28. '''[[落尾木属]]'''　'''''Pipturus''''' Wedd.
*29. '''[[苎麻属]]'''　'''''Boehmeria''''' Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本苎麻属]]'''　'''''Splitgerbera''''' Miq.
*30. '''[[瘤冠麻属]]'''　'''''Cypholophus''''' Wedd.
*31. '''[[水麻属]]'''　'''''Debregeasia''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长叶水麻属]]'''　'''''Leucocnide''''' Miq.
*32. '''[[舌柱麻属]]'''　'''''Archiboehmeria''''' C. J. Chen
*33. '''[[肉被麻属]]'''　'''''Sarcochlamys''''' Gaudich.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球隔麻属]]'''　'''''Sphaerotylos''''' C. J. Chen
==102. 壳斗目　Fagales==
===337. [[南青冈科]]　Nothofagaceae Kuprian.===
*1. '''[[南青冈属]]''' {{Sm|(南水青冈属，假山毛榉属，南山毛榉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nothofagus'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桦状南青冈属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calusparassus'''''|i}} Hombr. & Jacquinot
===338. [[壳斗科]]　Fagaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[水青冈属]]''' {{Sm|(山毛榉属)}}　'''''Fagus''''' L.
*2. '''[[三棱栎属]]'''　'''''Formanodendron''''' Nixon & Crepet
*3. '''[[轮叶三棱栎属]]'''　'''''Trigonobalanus''''' Forman
*4. '''[[柯属]]''' {{Sm|(椆属)}}　'''''Lithocarpus''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[壶嘴柯属]]'''　'''''Corylopasania''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石栎属]]'''　'''''Pasania''''' (Miq.) Oerst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[烟斗柯属]]'''　'''''Synaedrys''''' Lindl.
*5. '''[[栗属]]'''　'''''Castanea''''' Mill.
*6. '''[[锥属]]''' {{Sm|(锥栗属)}}　'''''Castanopsis''''' (D. Don) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒺藜锥属]]'''　'''''Balanoplis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[淋漓锥属]]'''　'''''Limlia''''' Masam. & Tomiya
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长果锥属]]'''　'''''Shiia''''' Makino
*7. '''[[栎属]]'''　'''''Quercus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青冈属]]'''　'''''Cyclobalanopsis''''' Oerst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红栎属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erythrobalanus'''''|i}} (Spach) O. Schwarz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄片青冈属]]'''　'''''Perytis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[包果栎属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scolodrys'''''|i}} Raf.
===339. [[杨梅科]]　Myricaceae Rich. ex Kunth===
*1. '''[[香杨梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Myrica'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[杨梅属]]'''　'''''Morella''''' Lour.
===340. [[胡桃科]]　Juglandaceae DC. ex Perleb===
*1. '''[[马尾树属]]'''　'''''Rhoiptelea''''' Diels & Hand.-Mazz.
*2. '''[[烟包树属]]'''　'''''Engelhardia''''' Lesch. ex Blume
*3. '''[[黄杞属]]'''　'''''Alfaropsis''''' Iljinsk.
*4. '''[[化香树属]]'''　'''''Platycarya''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*5. '''[[山核桃属]]'''　'''''Carya''''' Nutt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喙核桃属]]'''　'''''Annamocarya''''' A. Chev.
*6. '''[[青钱柳属]]'''　'''''Cyclocarya''''' Iljinsk.
*7. '''[[枫杨属]]'''　'''''Pterocarya''''' Kunth
*8. '''[[胡桃属]]'''　'''''Juglans''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白胡桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wallia'''''|i}} Alef.
===341. [[木麻黄科]]　Casuarinaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[方木麻黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnostoma'''''|i}} L. A. S. Johnson
*2. '''[[木麻黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Casuarina'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[异木麻黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Allocasuarina'''''|i}} L. A. S. Johnson
===342. [[桦木科]]　Betulaceae Gray===
*1. '''[[桤木属]]'''　'''''Alnus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秋桤木属]]'''　'''''Clethropsis''''' Spach
*2. '''[[桦木属]]'''　'''''Betula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西桦属]]'''　'''''Betulaster''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柴桦属]]'''　'''''Chamaebetula''''' Opiz
*3. '''[[榛属]]'''　'''''Corylus''''' L.
*4. '''[[虎榛子属]]'''　'''''Ostryopsis''''' Decne.
*5. '''[[铁木属]]'''　'''''Ostrya''''' Scop.
*6. '''[[千金榆属]]'''　'''''Distegocarpus''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*7. '''[[鹅耳枥属]]'''　'''''Carpinus''''' L.
==103. 葫芦目　Cucurbitales==
===343. [[马桑科]]　Coriariaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[马桑属]]'''　'''''Coriaria''''' L.
===344. [[葫芦科]]　Cucurbitaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[盒子草属]]'''　'''''Actinostemma''''' Griff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假贝母属]]'''　'''''Bolbostemma''''' Franquet
*2. '''[[锥形果属]]'''　'''''Gomphogyne''''' Griff.
*3. '''[[雪胆属]]'''　'''''Hemsleya''''' Cogn. ex F. B. Forbes & Hemsl.
*4. '''[[绞股蓝属]]'''　'''''Gynostemma''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喙果藤属]]'''　'''''Trirostellum''''' Z. P. Wang & Q. Z. Xie
*5. '''[[棒锤瓜属]]'''　'''''Neoalsomitra''''' Hutch.
*6. '''[[睡蓬壶属]]''' {{Sm|(睡布袋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gerrardanthus'''''|i}} Harv. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*7. '''[[翅子瓜属]]'''　'''''Zanonia''''' L.
*8. '''[[碧雷鼓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xerosicyos'''''|i}} Humbert
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙葫芦属]]''' {{Sm|(史葫芦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Zygosicyos'''''|i}} Humbert
*9. '''[[藏瓜属]]'''　'''''Indofevillea''''' Chatterjee
*10. '''[[白兼果属]]'''　'''''Baijiania''''' A. M. Lu & J. Q. Li
*11. '''[[赤瓟属]]'''　'''''Thladiantha''''' Bunge
*12. '''[[罗汉果属]]'''　'''''Siraitia''''' Merr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锡金罗汉果属]]'''　'''''Neoluffa''''' Chakrav.
*13. '''[[苦瓜属]]'''　'''''Momordica''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胶苦瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neurosperma'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木鳖子属]]'''　'''''Zucca''''' Comm. ex Juss.
*14. '''[[裂瓜属]]'''　'''''Schizopepon''''' Maxim.
*15. '''[[三裂瓜属]]'''　'''''Biswarea''''' Cogn.
*16. '''[[三棱瓜属]]'''　'''''Edgaria''''' C. B. Clarke
*17. '''[[波棱瓜属]]'''　'''''Herpetospermum''''' Wall. ex Hook. f.
*18. '''[[喷瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ecballium'''''|v}} A. Rich.
*19. '''[[泻根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bryonia'''''|i}} L.
*20. '''[[丝瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Luffa'''''|i}} Mill.
*21. '''[[油渣果属]]'''　'''''Hodgsonia''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*22. '''[[栝楼属]]'''　'''''Trichosanthes''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金瓜属]]'''　'''''Gymnopetalum''''' Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄叶栝楼属]]'''　'''''Involucraria''''' Ser.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全缘栝楼属]]'''　'''''Platygonia''''' Naudin
*23. '''[[刺果瓜属]]''' {{Sm|(刺瓜藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sicyos'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佛手瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sechium'''''|i}} P. Browne
*24. '''[[刺囊瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinocystis'''''|v}} Torr. & A. Gray
*25. '''[[小雀瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclanthera'''''|i}} Schrad.
*26. '''[[南瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cucurbita'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美国南瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melopepo'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ozodycus'''''|i}} Raf.
*27. '''[[麝香瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sicana'''''|i}} Naudin
*28. '''[[鬼香瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cionosicys'''''|i}} Griseb.
*29. '''[[戎瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cayaponia'''''|i}} Silva Manso
*30. '''[[龙蓬壶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seyrigia'''''|i}} Keraudren
*31. '''[[豆蓬壶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corallocarpus'''''|i}} Welw. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*32. '''[[狒狒瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kedrostis'''''|i}} Medik.
*33. '''[[笑蓬壶属]]''' {{Sm|(笑布袋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ibervillea'''''|i}} Greene
*34. '''[[马瓟儿属]]''' {{Sm|(马&#16142;儿属)}}　'''''Zehneria''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纽子瓜属]]'''　'''''Pilogyne''''' Eckl. ex Schrad.
*35. '''[[西瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Citrullus'''''|i}} Schrad.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[药西瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Colocynthis'''''|i}} Mill.
*36. '''[[葫芦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagenaria'''''|i}} Ser.
*37. '''[[悦猴瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Peponium'''''|i}} Engl.
*38. '''[[立蓬壶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cephalopentandra'''''|i}} Chiov.
*39. '''[[茅瓜属]]'''　'''''Solena''''' Lour.
*40. '''[[冬瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Benincasa'''''|i}} Savi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[空心瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Praecitrullus'''''|i}} Pangalo
*41. '''[[环蓬壶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trochomeria'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*42. '''[[番马瓟属]]''' {{Sm|(美洲马&#16142;儿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Melothria'''''|v}} L.
*43. '''[[滇马瓟属]]''' {{Sm|(云南马&#16142;儿属)}}　'''''Scopellaria''''' W. J. de Wilde & Duyfjes
*44. '''[[毒瓜属]]'''　'''''Diplocyclos''''' (Endl.) T. Post & Kuntze
*45. '''[[红瓜属]]'''　'''''Coccinia''''' Wight & Arn.
*46. '''[[黄瓜属]]'''　'''''Cucumis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[甜瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melo'''''|v}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[帽儿瓜属]]'''　'''''Mukia''''' Arn.
===345. [[四数木科]]　Tetramelaceae Airy Shaw===
*1. '''[[四数木属]]'''　'''''Tetrameles''''' R. Br.
===346. [[野麻科]]　Datiscaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[野麻属]]''' {{Sm|(疣柱花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Datisca'''''|i}} L.
===347. [[秋海棠科]]　Begoniaceae C. Agardh===
*1. '''[[秋海棠属]]'''　'''''Begonia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单座秋海棠属]]'''　'''''Reichenheimia''''' Klotzsch
==104. 卫矛目　Celastrales==
===348. [[卫矛科]]　Celastraceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[梅花草属]]'''　'''''Parnassia''''' L.
*2. '''[[假钓樟属]]''' {{Sm|(单室木属，托叶假樟属)}}　'''''Pottingeria''''' Prain
*3. '''[[假卫矛属]]'''　'''''Microtropis''''' Wall. ex Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木樨假卫矛属]]'''　'''''Chingithamnus''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*4. '''[[永瓣藤属]]'''　'''''Monimopetalum''''' Rehder
*5. '''[[木瓜桐属]]'''　'''''Siphonodon''''' Griff.
*6. '''[[南蛇藤属]]'''　'''''Celastrus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[独子藤属]]'''　'''''Monocelastrus''''' F. T. Wang & Tang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雷公藤属]]'''　'''''Tripterygium''''' Hook. f.
*7. '''[[卫矛属]]'''　'''''Euonymus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花卫矛属]]''' {{Sm|(拟卫矛属)}}　'''''Genitia''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沟瓣木属]]''' {{Sm|(沟瓣属)}}　'''''Glyptopetalum''''' Thwaites
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果卫矛属]]'''　'''''Kalonymus''''' (Beck) Prokh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉花卫矛属]]'''　'''''Masakia''''' (Nakai) Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棘刺卫矛属]]'''　'''''Pragmotessara''''' Pierre
*8. '''[[美登木属]]''' {{Sm|(裸实属)}}　'''''Gymnosporia''''' (Wight & Arn.) Benth. & Hook. f.
*9. '''[[巧茶属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Catha'''''|i}} Forssk. ex Scop.
*10. '''[[金榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cassine'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[番红榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crocoxylon'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
*11. '''[[胡桃桐属]]''' {{Sm|(流苏边脉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brexia'''''|i}} Noronha ex Thouars
*12. '''[[福榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elaeodendron'''''|i}} Jacq.
*13. '''[[盾柱榄属]]''' {{Sm|(盾柱属)}}　'''''Pleurostylia''''' Wight & Arn.
*14. '''[[五层龙属]]'''　'''''Salacia''''' L.
*15. '''[[斜翼属]]'''　'''''Plagiopteron''''' Griff.
*16. '''[[扁蒴藤属]]'''　'''''Reissantia''''' N. Hallé
*17. '''[[翅子藤属]]'''　'''''Loeseneriella''''' A. C. Sm.
*18. '''[[风车果属]]'''　'''''Arnicratea''''' N. Hallé
==105. 酢浆草目　Oxalidales==
===349. [[牛栓藤科]]　Connaraceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[单叶豆属]]'''　'''''Ellipanthus''''' Hook. f.
*2. '''[[牛栓藤属]]'''　'''''Connarus''''' L.
*3. '''[[螫毛果属]]'''　'''''Cnestis''''' Juss.
*4. '''[[栗豆藤属]]'''　'''''Agelaea''''' Sol. ex Planch.
*5. '''[[红叶藤属]]'''　'''''Rourea''''' Aubl.
*6. '''[[朱果藤属]]'''　'''''Roureopsis''''' Planch.
===350. [[酢浆草科]]　Oxalidaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[酢浆草属]]'''　'''''Oxalis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球根酢浆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bolboxalis'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花酢浆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caudoxalis'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞茎酢浆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ionoxalis'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[艳酢浆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otoxalis'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白蝶酢浆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sassia'''''|i}} Molina
*2. '''[[感应草属]]'''　'''''Biophytum''''' DC.
*3. '''[[阳桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Averrhoa'''''|i}} L.
===351. [[合椿梅科]]　Cunoniaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[红椿李属]]''' {{Sm|(大维逊李属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Davidsonia'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*2. '''[[朱萼梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceratopetalum'''''|i}} Sm.
*3. '''[[红荆梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Geissois'''''|i}} Labill.
*4. '''[[蓬荆梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudoweinmannia'''''|i}} Engl.
*5. '''[[银香茶属]]''' {{Sm|(密藏花属，落帽花属，船形果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eucryphia'''''|i}} Cav.
===352. [[杜英科]]　Elaeocarpaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[猴欢喜属]]'''　'''''Sloanea''''' L.
*2. '''[[酒果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aristotelia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*3. '''[[百合木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crinodendron'''''|i}} Molina
*4. '''[[杜英属]]'''　'''''Elaeocarpus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山杜英属]]'''　'''''Adenodus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆果杜英属]]'''　'''''Ayparia''''' Raf.
===353. [[土瓶草科]]　Cephalotaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[土瓶草属]]''' {{Sm|(澳洲瓶子草属，囊叶草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cephalotus'''''|i}} Labill.
==106. 金虎尾目　Malpighiales==
===354. [[小盘木科]]　Pandaceae Engl. & Gilg===
*1. '''[[小盘木属]]'''　'''''Microdesmis''''' Hook. f.
===355. [[假杧果科]]　Irvingiaceae Exell & Mendon&ccedil;a===
*1. '''[[假杧果属]]''' {{Sm|(苞芽树属，包芽树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Irvingia'''''|i}} Hook. f.
===356. [[红树科]]　Rhizophoraceae Pers.===
*1. '''[[竹节树属]]'''　'''''Carallia''''' Roxb.
*2. '''[[山红树属]]'''　'''''Pellacalyx''''' Korth.
*3. '''[[木榄属]]'''　'''''Bruguiera''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柱果木榄属]]'''　'''''Kanilia''''' Blume
*4. '''[[红树属]]'''　'''''Rhizophora''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红茄苳属]]'''　'''''Mangium''''' Rumph. ex Scop.
*5. '''[[秋茄树属]]'''　'''''Kandelia''''' (DC.) Wight & Arn.
*6. '''[[角果木属]]'''　'''''Ceriops''''' Arn.
===357. [[古柯科]]　Erythroxylaceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[古柯属]]'''　'''''Erythroxylum''''' P. Browne
===358. [[金莲木科]]　Ochnaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[蒴莲木属]]'''　'''''Sauvagesia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合柱金莲木属]]'''　'''''Sinia''''' Diels
*2. '''[[赛金莲木属]]'''　'''''Campylospermum''''' Tiegh.
*3. '''[[金莲木属]]'''　'''''Ochna''''' L.
===359. [[藤黄科]]　Clusiaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[书带木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clusia'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[藤黄属]]'''　'''''Garcinia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酸云果属]]'''　'''''Cambogia''''' L.
*3. '''[[猪油果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentadesma'''''|i}} Sabine
===360. [[红厚壳科]]　Calophyllaceae J. Agardh===
*1. '''[[铁力木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mesua'''''|v}} L.
*2. '''[[红厚壳属]]''' {{Sm|(胡桐属)}}　'''''Calophyllum''''' L.
*3. '''[[格脉树属]]''' {{Sm|(南美杏属，黄果木属)}}　'''''Mammea''''' L.
===361. [[川苔草科]]　Podostemaceae Rich. ex Kunth===
*1. '''[[川藻属]]'''　'''''Terniopsis''''' H. C. Chao
*2. '''[[川苔草属]]''' {{Sm|(飞瀑草属)}}　'''''Cladopus''''' H. A. M&ouml;ller
*3. '''[[水石衣属]]'''　'''''Hydrobryum''''' Endl.
===362. [[金丝桃科]]　Hypericaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[黄牛木属]]'''　'''''Cratoxylum''''' Blume
*2. '''[[合掌树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Harungana'''''|i}} Lam.
*3. '''[[金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Hypericum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[遍地金属]]'''　'''''Adenosepalum''''' Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火龙珠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Androsaemum'''''|i}} Duhamel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四数金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Ascyrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单室金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Brathys''''' Mutis ex L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[糙枝金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Drosanthe''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[埃及金丝桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elodes'''''|i}} Clus. ex Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冬绿火龙珠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eremanthe'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄海棠属]]'''　'''''Roscyna''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[松耳草属]]'''　'''''Sarothra''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Takasagoya''''' Y. Kimura
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地耳草属]]'''　'''''Tridia''''' Korth.
*4. '''[[三腺金丝桃属]]'''　'''''Triadenum''''' Raf.
*5. '''[[惠林花属]]'''　'''''Lianthus''''' N. Robson
===363. [[核果木科]]　Putranjivaceae Meisn.===
*1. '''[[假黄杨属]]''' {{Sm|(非洲核果木属)}}　'''''Putranjiva''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾假黄杨属]]'''　'''''Liodendron''''' H. Keng
*2. '''[[核果木属]]'''　'''''Drypetes''''' Vahl
===364. [[安神木科]]　Centroplacaceae Doweld & Reveal===
*1. '''[[膝柄木属]]'''　'''''Bhesa''''' Buch.-Ham. ex Arn.
===365. [[沟繁缕科]]　Elatinaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[田繁缕属]]'''　'''''Bergia''''' L.
*2. '''[[沟繁缕属]]'''　'''''Elatine''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三蕊沟繁缕属]]'''　'''''Birolia''''' Bellardi
===366. [[金虎尾科]]　Malpighiaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[金英属]]''' {{Sm|(金英树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Galphimia'''''|i}} Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[巴西金英属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vorstia'''''|i}} Adans.
*2. '''[[栎樱木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Byrsonima'''''|i}} Rich. ex Kunth
*3. '''[[三星果属]]'''　'''''Tristellateia''''' Thouars
*4. '''[[豆沙果属]]''' {{Sm|(文雀木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bunchosia'''''|i}} Kunth
*5. '''[[异翅藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heteropterys'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红翼藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Banisteria'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[风筝果属]]''' {{Sm|(飞鸢果属)}}　'''''Hiptage''''' Gaertn.
*7. '''[[叶柱藤属]]''' {{Sm|(蕊叶藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stigmaphyllon'''''|i}} A. Juss.
*8. '''[[翅实藤属]]''' {{Sm|(皱翅果属)}}　'''''Ryssopterys''''' Blume ex A. Juss.
*9. '''[[麻柳藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gaudichaudia'''''|i}} Kunth
*10. '''[[蝶翅藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mascagnia'''''|i}} (Bertero ex DC.) Bertero
*11. '''[[金虎尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malpighia'''''|i}} Plum. ex L.
*12. '''[[盾翅藤属]]'''　'''''Aspidopterys''''' A. Juss. ex Endl.
===367. [[毒鼠子科]]　Dichapetalaceae Baill.===
*1. '''[[毒鼠子属]]'''　'''''Dichapetalum''''' Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[番毒李属]]'''　'''''Chailletia''''' DC.
===368. [[青钟麻科]]　Achariaceae Harms===
*1. '''[[黑羹树属]]''' {{Sm|(潘济木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pangium'''''|i}} Reinw.
*2. '''[[马蛋果属]]'''　'''''Gynocardia''''' Roxb.
*3. '''[[蒴桃木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kiggelaria'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[大风子属]]'''　'''''Hydnocarpus''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙角属]]'''　'''''Taraktogenos''''' Hassk.
===369. [[堇菜科]]　Violaceae Batsch===
*1. '''[[三角车属]]''' {{Sm|(雷诺木属)}}　'''''Rinorea''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茂车木属]]'''　'''''Alsodeia''''' Thouars
*2. '''[[堇菜属]]'''　'''''Viola''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[双花堇菜属]]'''　'''''Chrysion''''' Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三色堇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ion'''''|i}} Medik.
*3. '''[[鳞隔堇属]]''' {{Sm|(茜菲堇属)}}　'''''Scyphellandra''''' Thwaites
*4. '''[[鼠鞭堇属]]''' {{Sm|(鼠鞭草属)}}　'''''Afrohybanthus''''' Flicker
===370. [[西番莲科]]　Passifloraceae Juss. ex Roussel===
*1. '''[[时钟花属]]''' {{Sm|(穗柱榆属，窝子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Turnera'''''|i}} Plum. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匍散时钟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triacis'''''|i}} Griseb.
*2. '''[[火蝶木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erblichia'''''|i}} Seem.
*3. '''[[蒴莲属]]'''　'''''Adenia''''' Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[掌叶蒴莲属]]'''　'''''Modecca''''' Lam.
*4. '''[[西番莲属]]'''　'''''Passiflora''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇王藤属]]'''　'''''Anthactinia''''' Bory ex M. Roem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细柱西番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Baldwinia'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[腺柄西番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceratosepalum'''''|v}} Oerst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[橙黄西番莲属]]'''　'''''Disemma''''' Labill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[腺叶西番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Distephana'''''|i}} (Juss. ex DC.) Juss. ex M. Roem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无瓣西番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monactineirma'''''|v}} Bory
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[维尔京西番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Murucuia'''''|i}} Tourn. ex Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕉番莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tacsonia'''''|i}} Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙珠果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tripsilina'''''|v}} Raf.
===371. [[杨柳科]]　Salicaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[脚骨脆属]]'''　'''''Casearia''''' Jacq.
*2. '''[[滇越木属]]'''　'''''Dianyuea''''' C. Shang, S. Liao & Z. X. Zhang
*3. '''[[天料木属]]'''　'''''Homalium''''' Jacq.
*4. '''[[金柞属]]''' {{Sm|(阿查拉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Azara'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*5. '''[[箣柊属]]'''　'''''Scolopia''''' Schreb.
*6. '''[[菲柞属]]'''　'''''Ahernia''''' Merr.
*7. '''[[柞木属]]'''　'''''Xylosma''''' G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长叶柞木属]]'''　'''''Myladenia''''' Airy Shaw
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[革叶柞木属]]'''　'''''Rumea''''' Poit.
*8. '''[[锡兰莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dovyalis'''''|i}} E. Mey. ex Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疣枝锡兰莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aberia'''''|i}} Hochst.
*9. '''[[刺篱木属]]'''　'''''Flacourtia''''' Comm. ex L'Hér.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南刺篱木属]]'''　'''''Stigmarota''''' Lour.
*10. '''[[鼻烟盒树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oncoba'''''|i}} Forssk.
*11. '''[[山桂花属]]'''　'''''Bennettiodendron''''' Merr.
*12. '''[[山桐子属]]'''　'''''Idesia''''' Maxim.
*13. '''[[山拐枣属]]'''　'''''Poliothyrsis''''' Oliv.
*14. '''[[山羊角树属]]'''　'''''Carrierea''''' Franch.
*15. '''[[栀子皮属]]'''　'''''Itoa''''' Hemsl.
*16. '''[[杨属]]'''　'''''Populus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑杨属]]'''　'''''Aigeiros''''' Tidestr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美香杨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tacamahaca'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲山杨属]]'''　'''''Tremula''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胡杨属]]'''　'''''Balsamiflua''''' Griff.
*17. '''[[柳属]]'''　'''''Salix''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五蕊柳属]]'''　'''''Amerina''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钻天柳属]]'''　'''''Chosenia''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三蕊柳属]]'''　'''''Opodix''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[原柳属]]'''　'''''Pleiarina''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四子柳属]]'''　'''''Ripsoctis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶柳属]]'''　'''''Toisusu''''' Kimura
===372. [[蚌壳木科]]　Peraceae Klotzsch===
*1. '''[[铁远志属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clutia'''''|i}} Boerh. ex L.
*2. '''[[刺果树属]]'''　'''''Chaetocarpus''''' Thwaites
===373. [[大花草科]]　Rafflesiaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[寄生花属]]'''　'''''Sapria''''' Griff.
===374. [[大戟科]]　Euphorbiaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[轴花木属]]'''　'''''Erismanthus''''' Wall. ex Müll. Arg.
*2. '''[[山麻秆属]]'''　'''''Alchornea''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽脉山麻秆属]]'''　'''''Cladodes''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红背山麻秆属]]'''　'''''Stipellaria''''' Benth.
*3. '''[[棒柄花属]]'''　'''''Cleidion''''' Blume
*4. '''[[粗毛野桐属]]'''　'''''Hancea''''' Seem.
*5. '''[[野桐属]]'''　'''''Mallotus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花野桐属]]'''　'''''Adisca''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[空盘木属]]'''　'''''Coelodiscus''''' Baill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗糠柴属]]'''　'''''Copianthus''''' Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白楸属]]'''　'''''Echinus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滑桃树属]]'''　'''''Trevia''''' L.
*6. '''[[血桐属]]'''　'''''Macaranga''''' Thouars
*7. '''[[山靛属]]'''　'''''Mercurialis''''' L.
*8. '''[[地构桐属]]''' {{Sm|(小果木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Micrococca'''''|v}} Benth.
*9. '''[[白桐树属]]'''　'''''Claoxylon''''' A. Juss.
*10. '''[[水柳属]]'''　'''''Homonoia''''' Lour.
*11. '''[[轮叶戟属]]'''　'''''Lasiococca''''' Hook. f.
*12. '''[[铁苋菜属]]'''　'''''Acalypha''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖尾铁苋菜属]]'''　'''''Caturus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[热带铁苋菜属]]'''　'''''Cupamenis''''' Raf.
*13. '''[[丹麻秆属]]''' {{Sm|(假奓包叶属)}}　'''''Discocleidion''''' (Müll. Arg.) Pax & K. Hoffm.
*14. '''[[蓖麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ricinus'''''|v}} L.
*15. '''[[地构叶属]]'''　'''''Speranskia''''' Baill.
*16. '''[[沙戟属]]'''　'''''Chrozophora''''' Neck. ex A. Juss.
*17. '''[[墨鳞属]]''' {{Sm|(墨鳞木属)}}　'''''Melanolepis''''' Rchb. f. ex Zoll.
*18. '''[[缅桐属]]''' {{Sm|(狭瓣木属，白叶桐属)}}　'''''Sumbaviopsis''''' J. J. Sm.
*19. '''[[肥牛树属]]''' {{Sm|(肥牛木属)}}　'''''Cephalomappa''''' Baill.
*20. '''[[白茶树属]]'''　'''''Koilodepas''''' Hassk.
*21. '''[[希陶木属]]'''　'''''Tsaiodendron''''' Y. H. Tan, H. Zhu & H. Sun
*22. '''[[白大凤属]]''' {{Sm|(枝实属)}}　'''''Cladogynos''''' Zipp. ex Span.
*23. '''[[蝴蝶果属]]'''　'''''Cleidiocarpon''''' Airy Shaw
*24. '''[[风轮桐属]]'''　'''''Symphyllia''''' Baill.
*25. '''[[星油藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plukenetia'''''|i}} L.
*26. '''[[黄蓉花属]]'''　'''''Dalechampia''''' Plum. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美翼木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cremophyllum'''''|i}} Scheidw.
*27. '''[[粗毛藤属]]'''　'''''Cnesmone''''' Blume
*28. '''[[粗柱藤属]]'''　'''''Pachystylidium''''' Pax & K. Hoffm.
*29. '''[[大柱藤属]]'''　'''''Megistostigma''''' Hook. f.
*30. '''[[黄桐属]]'''　'''''Endospermum''''' Benth.
*31. '''[[脐戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Omphalea'''''|i}} L.
*32. '''[[白树属]]'''　'''''Suregada''''' Roxb. ex Rottler
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾白树属]]'''　'''''Owataria''''' Matsum.
*33. '''[[木薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Manihot'''''|i}} Mill.
*34. '''[[花棘麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cnidoscolus'''''|i}} Pohl
*35. '''[[橡胶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hevea'''''|i}} Aubl.
*36. '''[[麻风树属]]''' {{Sm|(麻疯树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jatropha'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红珊瑚属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ricinoides'''''|i}} Mill.
*37. '''[[鹦鹉桐属]]''' {{Sm|(油大戟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Joannesia'''''|i}} Vell.
*38. '''[[巴豆属]]'''　'''''Croton''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬毛巴豆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachystachys'''''|v}} Klotzsch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[留尼汪巴豆属]]'''　'''''Halecus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疏齿巴豆属]]'''　'''''Triplandra''''' Raf.
*39. '''[[三宝木属]]'''　'''''Trigonostemon''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花三宝木属]]''' {{Sm|(博兰木属)}}　'''''Poilaniella''''' Gagnep.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菩黍树属]]'''　'''''Prosartema''''' Gagnep.
*40. '''[[叶轮木属]]'''　'''''Ostodes''''' Blume
*41. '''[[异萼木属]]'''　'''''Tritaxis''''' Baill.
*42. '''[[变叶木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Codiaeum'''''|i}} Rumph. ex A. Juss.
*43. '''[[留萼木属]]'''　'''''Blachia''''' Baill.
*44. '''[[宿萼木属]]''' {{Sm|(长腺萼木属)}}　'''''Strophioblachia''''' Boerl.
*45. '''[[斑籽木属]]''' {{Sm|(斑籽属)}}　'''''Baliospermum''''' Blume
*46. '''[[蓖麻桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ricinodendron'''''|i}} Müll. Arg.
*47. '''[[石栗属]]'''　'''''Aleurites''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*48. '''[[油桐属]]'''　'''''Vernicia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本油桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elaeococca'''''|i}} Comm. ex A. Juss.
*49. '''[[三籽桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Reutealis'''''|i}} Airy Shaw
*50. '''[[构桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Garcia'''''|i}} Rohr
*51. '''[[东京桐属]]'''　'''''Deutzianthus''''' Gagnep.
*52. '''[[乌桕属]]'''　'''''Triadica''''' Lour.
*53. '''[[裸花树属]]'''　'''''Gymnanthes''''' Sw.
*54. '''[[齿叶乌桕属]]'''　'''''Shirakiopsis''''' Esser
*55. '''[[浆果乌桕属]]'''　'''''Balakata''''' Esser
*56. '''[[白木乌桕属]]'''　'''''Neoshirakia''''' Esser
*57. '''[[澳杨属]]''' {{Sm|(圆叶血桐属)}}　'''''Homalanthus''''' A. Juss.
*58. '''[[地杨桃属]]'''　'''''Microstachys''''' A. Juss.
*59. '''[[响盒子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hura'''''|i}} L.
*60. '''[[厚托桐属]]'''　'''''Stillingia''''' Garden ex L.
*61. '''[[异序乌桕属]]'''　'''''Falconeria''''' Royle
*62. '''[[美洲桕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sapium'''''|i}} Jacq.
*63. '''[[海漆属]]'''　'''''Excoecaria''''' L.
*64. '''[[大戟属]]'''　'''''Euphorbia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牙买加一品红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adenorima'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲大戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agaloma'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[聚伞大戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aklema'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫锦木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alectoroctonum'''''|i}} Schltdl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红偏阁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anthacantha'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匍匐大戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aplarina'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地锦草属]]'''　'''''Chamaesyce''''' Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鬼栖木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dactylanthes'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[飞扬草属]]'''　'''''Desmonema''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翠雀珊瑚属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diadenaria'''''|i}} Klotzsch & Garcke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[核果大戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elaeophorbia'''''|i}} Stapf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[续随子属]]'''　'''''Epurga''''' Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳浆大戟属]]'''　'''''Keraselma''''' (Neck. ex Rchb.) Neck. ex Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁海棠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lacanthis'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银边翠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lepadena'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[霞翠柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lortia'''''|i}} Rendle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翡翠柱属]]''' {{Sm|(单腺戟属，翡翠塔属，翡翠木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Monadenium'''''|i}} Pax
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红雀珊瑚属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pedilanthus'''''|i}} Neck. ex Poit.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[一品红属]]'''　'''''Poinsettia''''' Graham
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩云木属]]''' {{Sm|(聚苞大戟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Synadenium'''''|i}} Boiss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿玉树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tirucalia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小大戟属]]'''　'''''Tithymalus''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[墨麒麟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Torfasadis'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绯苞草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichosterigma'''''|i}} Klotzsch & Garcke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斑地锦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xamesike'''''|v}} Raf.
===375. [[亚麻科]]　Linaceae DC. ex Perleb===
*1. '''[[青篱柴属]]'''　'''''Tirpitzia''''' Hallier f.
*2. '''[[石海椒属]]'''　'''''Reinwardtia''''' Dumort.
*3. '''[[异腺草属]]'''　'''''Anisadenia''''' Wall. ex Meisn.
*4. '''[[亚麻属]]'''　'''''Linum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宿根亚麻属]]'''　'''''Adenolinum''''' Rchb.
===376. [[黏木科]]　Ixonanthaceae Planch. ex Miq.===
*1. '''[[黏木属]]''' {{Sm|(粘木属)}}　'''''Ixonanthes''''' Jack
===377. [[苦皮桐科]]　Picrodendraceae Small===
*1. '''[[谷矛桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Whyanbeelia'''''|i}} Airy Shaw & B. Hyland
===378. [[叶下珠科]]　Phyllanthaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[秋枫属]]''' {{Sm|(重阳木属)}}　'''''Bischofia''''' Blume
*2. '''[[银柴属]]'''　'''''Aporosa''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛银柴属]]'''　'''''Scepa''''' Lindl.
*3. '''[[木奶果属]]'''　'''''Baccaurea''''' Lour.
*4. '''[[五月茶属]]'''　'''''Antidesma''''' L.
*5. '''[[喜光花属]]''' {{Sm|(滨木属)}}　'''''Actephila''''' Blume
*6. '''[[雀舌木属]]''' {{Sm|(雀儿舌头属)}}　'''''Leptopus''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[方鼎木属]]'''　'''''Archileptopus''''' P. T. Li
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄叶雀舌木属]]'''　'''''Thelypetalum''''' Gagnep.
*7. '''[[闭花木属]]'''　'''''Cleistanthus''''' Hook. f. ex Planch.
*8. '''[[土蜜树属]]'''　'''''Bridelia''''' Willd.
*9. '''[[蓝子木属]]'''　'''''Margaritaria''''' L. f.
*10. '''[[龙胆木属]]'''　'''''Richeriella''''' Pax & K. Hoffm.
*11. '''[[白饭树属]]''' {{Sm|(一叶萩属)}}　'''''Flueggea''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[染用白饭树属]]'''　'''''Colmeiroa''''' Reut.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[一叶萩属]]'''　'''''Geblera''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*12. '''[[印非叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Nellica''''' Raf.
*13. '''[[山格木属]]'''　'''''Cathetus''''' Lour.
*14. '''[[浆果叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Kirganelia''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青灰叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Flueggeopsis''''' (Müll. Arg.) K. Schum.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[落萼叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Hemicicca''''' Baill.
*15. '''[[毛果叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Eriococcus''''' Hassk.
*16. '''[[叶下珠属]]'''　'''''Phyllanthus''''' L.
*17. '''[[番醋栗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cicca'''''|i}} L.
*18. '''[[余甘子属]]'''　'''''Emblica''''' Gaertn.
*19. '''[[珠子草属]]'''　'''''Urinaria''''' Medik.
*20. '''[[珠子木属]]'''　'''''Phyllanthodendron''''' Hemsl.
*21. '''[[算盘子属]]'''　'''''Glochidion''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红算盘子属]]'''　'''''Episteira''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[艾胶算盘子属]]'''　'''''Glochisandra''''' Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卵柱算盘子属]]'''　'''''Gynoon''''' A. Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[甜叶算盘子属]]'''　'''''Zarcoa''''' Llanos
*22. '''[[黑面神属]]'''　'''''Breynia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盈江守宫木属]]'''　'''''Breyniopsis''''' Beille
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[方枝守宫木属]]'''　'''''Ceratogynum''''' Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小叶黑面神属]]'''　'''''Melanthesa''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[守宫木属]]'''　'''''Sauropus''''' Blume
*23. '''[[艾堇属]]'''　'''''Synostemon''''' F. Muell.
==107. 牻牛儿苗目　Geraniales==
===379. [[牻牛儿苗科]]　Geraniaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[天竺葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pelargonium'''''|i}} L'Hér. ex Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马蹄天竺葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ciconium'''''|i}} Sweet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盾叶天竺葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dibrachya'''''|i}} Eckl. & Zeyh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉人葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otidia'''''|i}} Lindl. ex Sweet
*2. '''[[凤嘴葵属]]''' {{Sm|(多蕊老鹳草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Monsonia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙骨葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcocaulon'''''|i}} (DC.) Sweet
*3. '''[[老鹳草属]]'''　'''''Geranium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[汉荭鱼腥草属]]'''　'''''Robertium''''' Picard
*4. '''[[牻牛儿苗属]]'''　'''''Erodium''''' L'Hér. ex Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芹叶牻牛儿苗属]]'''　'''''Myrrhina''''' Rupr.
===380. [[新妇花科]]　Francoaceae A. Juss.===
*1. '''[[娑羽树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bersama'''''|i}} Fresen.
*2. '''[[蜜花属]]''' {{Sm|(羽叶树属，蜜花树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Melianthus'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[红鹃木属]]''' {{Sm|(鞘叶树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Greyia'''''|i}} Hook. & Harv.
==108. 桃金娘目　Myrtales==
===381. [[使君子科]]　Combretaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[对叶榄李属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Laguncularia'''''|v}} C. F. Gaertn.
*2. '''[[榄李属]]'''　'''''Lumnitzera''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红榄李属]]'''　'''''Pyrrhanthus''''' Jack
*3. '''[[桤果木属]]''' {{Sm|(锥果木属，柱果木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Conocarpus'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[榆绿木属]]'''　'''''Anogeissus''''' (DC.) Wall. ex Guill., Perr. & A. Rich.
*5. '''[[榄檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bucida'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[榄仁属]]''' {{Sm|(榄仁树属)}}　'''''Terminalia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[诃子属]]'''　'''''Myrobalanifera''''' Houtt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毗黎勒属]]'''　'''''Myrobalanus''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阿江榄仁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentaptera'''''|i}} Roxb.
*7. '''[[萼翅藤属]]'''　'''''Getonia''''' Roxb.
*8. '''[[风车子属]]''' {{Sm|(风车藤属)}}　'''''Combretum''''' Loefl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔叶风车子属]]'''　'''''Embryogonia''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[使君子属]]'''　'''''Quisqualis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花使君子属]]'''　'''''Sphalanthus''''' Jack
===382. [[千屈菜科]]　Lythraceae J. St.-Hil.===
*1. '''[[黄薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heimia'''''|i}} Link
*2. '''[[水篱草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Didiplis'''''|i}} Raf.
*3. '''[[节节菜属]]'''　'''''Rotala''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶节节菜属]]'''　'''''Hoshiarpuria''''' Hajra, P. Daniel & Philcox
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红松节节菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hydrolythrum'''''|i}} Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶节节菜属]]'''　'''''Mirkooa''''' Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花节节菜属]]'''　'''''Sellowia''''' Roth ex Roem. & Schult.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五蕊节节菜属]]'''　'''''Tritheca''''' Miq.
*4. '''[[千屈菜属]]'''　'''''Lythrum''''' L.
*5. '''[[荸艾属]]'''　'''''Peplis''''' L.
*6. '''[[海桑属]]'''　'''''Sonneratia''''' L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杯萼海桑属]]'''　'''''Chiratia''''' Montrouz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无瓣海桑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kambala'''''|v}} Raf.
*7. '''[[菱属]]'''　'''''Trapa''''' L.
*8. '''[[八宝树属]]'''　'''''Duabanga''''' Buch.-Ham.
*9. '''[[紫薇属]]'''　'''''Lagerstroemia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小叶紫薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fatioa'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花紫薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Munchausia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川黔紫薇属]]'''　'''''Orias''''' Dode
*10. '''[[水苋菜属]]'''　'''''Ammannia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多花水苋属]]'''　'''''Ditheca''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳基水苋属]]'''　'''''Ronconia''''' Raf.
*11. '''[[散沫花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lawsonia'''''|i}} L.
*12. '''[[水芫花属]]'''　'''''Pemphis''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*13. '''[[石榴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Punica'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[丽薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lafoensia'''''|i}} Vand.
*15. '''[[虾子花属]]'''　'''''Woodfordia''''' Salisb.
*16. '''[[萼距花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cuphea'''''|v}} P. Browne
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黏萼距花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Balsamona'''''|i}} Vand.
===383. [[柳叶菜科]]　Onagraceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[丁香蓼属]]'''　'''''Ludwigia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草龙属]]'''　'''''Fissendocarpa''''' (Haines) Bennet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对叶丁香蓼属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Isnardia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水龙属]]'''　'''''Jussiaea''''' L.
*2. '''[[露珠草属]]'''　'''''Circaea''''' L.
*3. '''[[倒挂金钟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fuchsia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长筒金钟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ellobium'''''|i}} Lilja
*4. '''[[柳兰属]]'''　'''''Chamerion''''' (Raf.) Raf. ex Holub
*5. '''[[柳叶菜属]]'''　'''''Epilobium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[朱巧花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zauschneria'''''|i}} C. Presl
*6. '''[[仙女扇属]]''' {{Sm|(克拉花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Clarkia'''''|v}} Pursh
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙女盏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Godetia'''''|i}} Spach
*7. '''[[月见草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oenothera'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山桃草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gaura'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉花月见草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hartmannia'''''|v}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂叶月见草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raimannia'''''|i}} Rose ex Britton & A. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽月见草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xylopleurum'''''|i}} Spach
===384. [[桃金娘科]]　Myrtaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[金缨木属]]''' {{Sm|(金蒲桃属，黄蕊木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xanthostemon'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*2. '''[[红胶木属]]''' {{Sm|(毛刷木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lophostemon'''''|i}} Schott
*3. '''[[红千层属]]''' {{Sm|(瓶刷树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Callistemon'''''|i}} R. Br.
*4. '''[[白千层属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melaleuca'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[网刷树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calothamnus'''''|i}} Labill.
*6. '''[[四裂假桉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stockwellia'''''|i}} D. J. Carr, S. G. M. Carr & B. Hyland
*7. '''[[杯果木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Angophora'''''|i}} Cav.
*8. '''[[伞房桉属]]''' {{Sm|(皱果桉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Corymbia'''''|i}} K. D. Hill & L. A. S. Johnson
*9. '''[[桉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eucalyptus'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*10. '''[[聚果木属]]''' {{Sm|(铁木桃金娘属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Syncarpia'''''|i}} Ten.
*11. '''[[香柳梅属]]''' {{Sm|(柳香桃属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Agonis'''''|i}} (DC.) Sweet
*12. '''[[缨柳梅属]]''' {{Sm|(刷木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kunzea'''''|i}} Rchb.
*13. '''[[松红梅属]]''' {{Sm|(鱼柳梅属，细子木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leptospermum'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*14. '''[[小蜡花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Micromyrtus'''''|i}} Benth.
*15. '''[[葵蜡花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thryptomene'''''|i}} Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大萼葵蜡花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Paryphantha'''''|i}} Schauer
*16. '''[[风蜡花属]]''' {{Sm|(玉梅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chamelaucium'''''|i}} Desf.
*17. '''[[岗松属]]'''　'''''Baeckea''''' L.
*18. '''[[束蕊梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Astartea'''''|i}} DC.
*19. '''[[扁籽岗松属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sannantha'''''|i}} Peter G. Wilson
*20. '''[[铁心木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Metrosideros'''''|i}} Banks ex Gaertn.
*21. '''[[檬香桃属]]''' {{Sm|(石木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Backhousia'''''|i}} Hook. & Harv.
*22. '''[[蒲桃属]]'''　'''''Syzygium''''' P. Browne ex Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肖蒲桃属]]'''　'''''Acmena''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棒花蒲桃属]]'''　'''''Acmenosperma''''' Kausel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丁子香属]]'''　'''''Caryophyllus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水翁属]]'''　'''''Cleistocalyx''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水蒲桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malidra'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高檐蒲桃属]]'''　'''''Strongylocalyx''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤楠属]]'''　'''''Syllysium''''' Meyen & Schauer
*23. '''[[香桃木属]]''' {{Sm|(银香梅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Myrtus'''''|i}} L.
*24. '''[[子楝树属]]'''　'''''Decaspermum''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*25. '''[[桃金娘属]]'''　'''''Rhodomyrtus''''' (DC.) Rchb.
*26. '''[[玫瑰木属]]'''　'''''Rhodamnia''''' Jack
*27. '''[[团番樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Myrciaria'''''|i}} O. Berg
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[嘉宝果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guapurium'''''|i}} Juss.
*28. '''[[树番樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plinia'''''|i}} L.
*29. '''[[莓香果属]]''' {{Sm|(小红果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ugni'''''|i}} Turcz.
*30. '''[[彩桃木属]]''' {{Sm|(新嘉宝果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lophomyrtus'''''|i}} Burret
*31. '''[[番石榴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Psidium'''''|v}} L.
*32. '''[[野凤榴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acca'''''|i}} O. Berg
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凤榴属]]''' {{Sm|(南美棯属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Feijoa'''''|i}} O. Berg
*33. '''[[多香果属]]''' {{Sm|(众香树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pimenta'''''|i}} Lindl.
*34. '''[[番樱桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eugenia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五萼番樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hexachlamys'''''|i}} O. Berg
*35. '''[[忍冬番樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Myrcianthes'''''|i}} O. Berg
*36. '''[[龙袍木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Luma'''''|i}} A. Gray
===385. [[野牡丹科]]　Melastomataceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[谷木属]]'''　'''''Memecylon''''' L.
*2. '''[[褐鳞木属]]'''　'''''Astronia''''' Blume
*3. '''[[桕元丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Graffenrieda'''''|i}} DC.
*4. '''[[锦元丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adelobotrys'''''|i}} DC.
*5. '''[[元丹花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meriania'''''|i}} Sw.
*6. '''[[斧元丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Axinaea'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*7. '''[[爪元丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tessmannianthus'''''|i}} Markgr.
*8. '''[[绢木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Miconia'''''|v}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山绢木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acinodendron'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛绢木属]]''' {{Sm|(毛野牡丹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Clidemia'''''|v}} D. Don
*9. '''[[革绢木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetrazygia'''''|i}} Rich. ex DC.
*10. '''[[镖绢木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ossaea'''''|i}} DC.
*11. '''[[杯碟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Blakea'''''|i}} P. Browne
*12. '''[[酸脚杆属]]'''　'''''Pseudodissochaeta''''' M. P. Nayar
*13. '''[[藤牡丹属]]'''　'''''Dissochaeta''''' Blume
*14. '''[[卷花丹属]]'''　'''''Scorpiothyrsus''''' H. L. Li
*15. '''[[鸭脚茶属]]'''　'''''Tashiroea''''' Matsum. ex T. It&ocirc; & Matsum.
*16. '''[[虎颜花属]]'''　'''''Tigridiopalma''''' C. Chen
*17. '''[[美丁花属]]'''　'''''Medinilla''''' Gaudich.
*18. '''[[锦香草属]]'''　'''''Phyllagathis''''' Blume
*19. '''[[蜂斗草属]]'''　'''''Sonerila''''' Roxb.
*20. '''[[肉穗草属]]'''　'''''Sarcopyramis''''' Wall.
*21. '''[[棱果花属]]''' {{Sm|(毛药花属)}}　'''''Barthea''''' Hook. f.
*22. '''[[异形木属]]'''　'''''Allomorphia''''' Blume
*23. '''[[尖子木属]]'''　'''''Oxyspora''''' DC.
*24. '''[[偏瓣花属]]'''　'''''Plagiopetalum''''' Rehder
*25. '''[[八蕊花属]]'''　'''''Sporoxeia''''' W. W. Sm.
*26. '''[[柏拉木属]]'''　'''''Blastus''''' Lour.
*27. '''[[药囊花属]]'''　'''''Cyphotheca''''' Diels
*28. '''[[长穗花属]]'''　'''''Styrophyton''''' S. Y. Hu
*29. '''[[异药花属]]''' {{Sm|(肥肉草属)}}　'''''Fordiophyton''''' Stapf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无距花属]]'''　'''''Stapfiophyton''''' H. L. Li
*30. '''[[野海棠属]]'''　'''''Bredia''''' Blume
*31. '''[[锦鹿丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arthrostemma'''''|i}} Pav. ex D. Don
*32. '''[[蔓牡丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heterotis'''''|i}} Benth.
*33. '''[[野牡丹属]]'''　'''''Melastoma''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳药花属]]'''　'''''Otanthera''''' Blume
*34. '''[[金锦香属]]'''　'''''Osbeckia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星毛金锦香属]]'''　'''''Ceramicalyx''''' Blume
*35. '''[[非洲棯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dissotis'''''|i}} Benth.
*36. '''[[蒂牡花属]]''' {{Sm|(丽蓝木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tibouchina'''''|i}} Aubl.
*37. '''[[四瓣果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heterocentron'''''|i}} Hook. & Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔓茎四瓣果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schizocentron'''''|i}} Meisn.
*38. '''[[异芸丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monochaetum'''''|i}} (DC.) Naudin
*39. '''[[独臂花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monolena'''''|i}} Triana ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*40. '''[[奋臂花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triolena'''''|i}} Naudin
===386. [[隐翼木科]]　Crypteroniaceae A. DC.===
*1. '''[[隐翼木属]]''' {{Sm|(隐翼属)}}　'''''Crypteronia''''' Blume
==109. 缨子木目　Crossosomatales==
===387. [[省沽油科]]　Staphyleaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[野鸦椿属]]'''　'''''Euscaphis''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*2. '''[[省沽油属]]'''　'''''Staphylea''''' L.
*3. '''[[山香圆属]]'''　'''''Triceros''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果山香圆属]]'''　'''''Dalrympelea''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锐尖山香圆属]]'''　'''''Ochranthe''''' Lindl.
*4. '''[[膀胱果属]]'''　'''''Bumalda''''' Thunb.
===388. [[旌节花科]]　Stachyuraceae J. Agardh===
*1. '''[[旌节花属]]'''　'''''Stachyurus''''' Siebold & Zucc.
==110. 苦榄木目　Picramniales==
===389. [[苦榄木科]]　Picramniaceae Fernando & Quinn===
*1. '''[[苦榄木属]]''' {{Sm|(美洲苦木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Picramnia'''''|i}} Sw.
==111. 无患子目　Sapindales==
===390. [[熏倒牛科]]　Biebersteiniaceae Schnizl.===
*1. '''[[熏倒牛属]]'''　'''''Biebersteinia''''' Stephan
===391. [[白刺科]]　Nitrariaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[白刺属]]'''　'''''Nitraria''''' L.
*2. '''[[骆驼蓬属]]'''　'''''Peganum''''' L.
===392. [[橄榄科]]　Burseraceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[刺茎榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Beiselia'''''|i}} Forman
*2. '''[[马蹄果属]]'''　'''''Protium''''' Burm. f.
*3. '''[[裂榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bursera'''''|i}} Jacq. ex L.
*4. '''[[没药树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Commiphora'''''|i}} Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白皮没药树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hemprichia'''''|i}} Ehrenb.
*5. '''[[白头树属]]''' {{Sm|(嘉榄属)}}　'''''Garuga''''' Roxb.
*6. '''[[乳香树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Boswellia'''''|i}} Roxb. ex Colebr.
*7. '''[[橄榄属]]'''　'''''Canarium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇榄属]]'''　'''''Rumphia''''' L.
===393. [[漆树科]]　Anacardiaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[白纹漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentaspadon'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*2. '''[[人面子属]]'''　'''''Dracontomelon''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚太人面子属]]'''　'''''Comeurya''''' Baill.
*3. '''[[藤漆属]]'''　'''''Pegia''''' Colebr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[利黄藤属]]''' {{Sm|(脉果漆属)}}　'''''Phlebochiton''''' Wall.
*4. '''[[岭南酸枣属]]'''　'''''Allospondias''''' Stapf
*5. '''[[槟榔青属]]'''　'''''Spondias''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南洋橄榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cytheraea'''''|i}} Wight & Arn.
*6. '''[[单叶槟榔青属]]'''　'''''Haplospondias''''' Kosterm.
*7. '''[[鸠漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Campnosperma'''''|i}} Thwaites
*8. '''[[山檨子属]]'''　'''''Buchanania''''' Spreng.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[豆腐果属]]'''　'''''Launzan''''' Buch.-Ham.
*9. '''[[象李属]]''' {{Sm|(硬果漆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sclerocarya'''''|i}} Hochst.
*10. '''[[厚皮树属]]'''　'''''Lannea''''' A. Rich.
*11. '''[[镰枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Harpephyllum'''''|i}} Bernh. ex Krauss
*12. '''[[盖果漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Operculicarya'''''|i}} H. Perrier
*13. '''[[南酸枣属]]'''　'''''Choerospondias''''' B. L. Burtt & A. W. Hill
*14. '''[[帝汶李属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pleiogynium'''''|i}} Engl.
*15. '''[[鸽枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tapirira'''''|i}} Aubl.
*16. '''[[斜枣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtocarpa'''''|i}} Kunth
*17. '''[[九子母属]]'''　'''''Dobinea''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊角天麻属]]'''　'''''Podoon''''' Baill.
*18. '''[[肉托果属]]'''　'''''Semecarpus''''' L. f.
*19. '''[[辛果漆属]]'''　'''''Drimycarpus''''' Hook. f.
*20. '''[[腰果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacardium'''''|i}} L.
*21. '''[[士打树属]]''' {{Sm|(波漆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bouea'''''|i}} Meisn.
*22. '''[[杧果属]]''' {{Sm|(芒果属)}}　'''''Mangifera''''' L.
*23. '''[[三叶漆属]]'''　'''''Searsia''''' F. A. Barkley
*24. '''[[葡萄漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sorindeia'''''|i}} Thouars
*25. '''[[桂麸杨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malosma'''''|i}} (Nutt.) Abrams
*26. '''[[白榄漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachycormus'''''|i}} Coville
*27. '''[[盐麸木属]]''' {{Sm|(盐肤木属)}}　'''''Rhus''''' Tourn. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香麸杨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lobadium'''''|i}} Raf.
*28. '''[[黄栌属]]'''　'''''Cotinus''''' Tourn. ex Mill.
*29. '''[[黄连木属]]'''　'''''Pistacia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[笃耨香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Terebinthus'''''|i}} Mill.
*30. '''[[漆树属]]''' {{Sm|(漆属)}}　'''''Toxicodendron''''' Tourn. ex Mill.
*31. '''[[斑纹漆属]]''' {{Sm|(星树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Astronium'''''|i}} Jacq.
*32. '''[[破斧木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schinopsis'''''|i}} Engl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红破斧木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Quebrachia'''''|i}} Griseb.
*33. '''[[肖乳香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schinus'''''|i}} L.
*34. '''[[白饼漆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lithrea'''''|i}} Hook.
===394. [[无患子科]]　Sapindaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[文冠果属]]'''　'''''Xanthoceras''''' Bunge
*2. '''[[金钱槭属]]''' {{Sm|(金钱枫属)}}　'''''Dipteronia''''' Oliv.
*3. '''[[槭属]]''' {{Sm|(枫属)}}　'''''Acer''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三小叶槭属]]'''　'''''Crula''''' Nieuwl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[挪威槭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euacer'''''|i}} Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[梣叶槭属]]'''　'''''Negundo''''' Boehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红花槭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rufacer'''''|i}} Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[糖槭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saccharodendron'''''|i}} (Raf.) Nieuwl.
*4. '''[[掌叶木属]]''' {{Sm|(平舟木属)}}　'''''Handeliodendron''''' Rehder
*5. '''[[七叶树属]]'''　'''''Aesculus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东美七叶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pavia'''''|i}} Mill.
*6. '''[[凤目栾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Majidea'''''|i}} J. Kirk ex Oliv.
*7. '''[[黄梨木属]]'''　'''''Boniodendron''''' Gagnep.
*8. '''[[伞花木属]]'''　'''''Eurycorymbus''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*9. '''[[假山椤属]]''' {{Sm|(假山萝属)}}　'''''Harpullia''''' Roxb.
*10. '''[[车桑子属]]''' {{Sm|(坡柳属)}}　'''''Dodonaea''''' Mill.
*11. '''[[茶条木属]]'''　'''''Delavaya''''' Franch.
*12. '''[[荆花栗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ungnadia'''''|i}} Endl.
*13. '''[[栾属]]''' {{Sm|(栾树属)}}　'''''Koelreuteria''''' Laxm.
*14. '''[[假韶子属]]'''　'''''Paranephelium''''' Miq.
*15. '''[[檀栗属]]'''　'''''Pavieasia''''' Pierre
*16. '''[[细子龙属]]'''　'''''Amesiodendron''''' Hu
*17. '''[[久树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schleichera'''''|i}} Willd.
*18. '''[[无患子属]]'''　'''''Sapindus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛瓣无患子属]]'''　'''''Dittelasma''''' Hook. f.
*19. '''[[鳞花木属]]'''　'''''Lepisanthes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇赤才属]]'''　'''''Aphania''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤才属]]'''　'''''Erioglossum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赛木患属]]'''　'''''Howethoa''''' Rauschert
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爪耳木属]]'''　'''''Otophora''''' Blume
*20. '''[[龙眼属]]'''　'''''Dimocarpus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肖韶子属]]'''　'''''Pseudonephelium''''' Radlk.
*21. '''[[荔枝属]]'''　'''''Litchi''''' Sonn.
*22. '''[[干果木属]]'''　'''''Xerospermum''''' Blume
*23. '''[[韶子属]]'''　'''''Nephelium''''' L.
*24. '''[[番龙眼属]]'''　'''''Pometia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*25. '''[[咸鱼果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Blighia'''''|i}} K. D. Koenig
*26. '''[[酸酱木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diploglottis'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*27. '''[[柄果木属]]'''　'''''Mischocarpus''''' Blume
*28. '''[[肉蜜莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcotoechia'''''|i}} Radlk.
*29. '''[[鸮蜜莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cupaniopsis'''''|i}} Radlk.
*30. '''[[滨木患属]]'''　'''''Arytera''''' Blume
*31. '''[[蜜莓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melicoccus'''''|i}} P. Browne
*32. '''[[异木患属]]'''　'''''Allophylus''''' L.
*33. '''[[倒地铃属]]'''　'''''Cardiospermum''''' L.
*34. '''[[醒神藤属]]''' {{Sm|(保力藤属，泡林藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Paullinia'''''|i}} L.
===395. [[芸香科]]　Rutaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[牛筋果属]]'''　'''''Harrisonia''''' R. Br. ex A. Juss.
*2. '''[[裸芸香属]]'''　'''''Psilopeganum''''' Hemsl.
*3. '''[[芸香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruta'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[石椒草属]]'''　'''''Boenninghausenia''''' Rchb. ex Meisn.
*5. '''[[拟芸香属]]'''　'''''Haplophyllum''''' A. Juss.
*6. '''[[咖喱树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bergera'''''|i}} J. Koenig ex L.
*7. '''[[黄皮属]]'''　'''''Clausena''''' Burm. f.
*8. '''[[小芸木属]]'''　'''''Micromelum''''' Blume
*9. '''[[山小橘属]]'''　'''''Glycosmis''''' Corrêa
*10. '''[[九里香属]]'''　'''''Murraya''''' J. Koenig ex L.
*11. '''[[锦橘果属]]''' {{Sm|(三囊属，三叶橘属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Triphasia'''''|i}} Lour.
*12. '''[[单叶藤橘属]]'''　'''''Paramignya''''' Wight
*13. '''[[三叶藤橘属]]'''　'''''Luvunga''''' (Roxb.) Buch.-Ham. ex Wight & Arn.
*14. '''[[木橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aegle'''''|i}} Corrêa
*15. '''[[柑果子属]]''' {{Sm|(橘果子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Naringi'''''|i}} Adans.
*16. '''[[象橘属]]''' {{Sm|(木苹果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Limonia'''''|i}} L.
*17. '''[[酒饼簕属]]'''　'''''Atalantia''''' Corrêa
*18. '''[[柑橘属]]'''　'''''Citrus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酸橙属]]'''　'''''Aurantium''''' Tourn. ex Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四季橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Citrofortunella'''''|i}} J. W. Ingram & H. E. Moore
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙地橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eremocitrus'''''|i}} Swingle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长丝橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Feroniella'''''|i}} Swingle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金橘属]]'''　'''''Fortunella''''' Swingle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[指橙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Microcitrus'''''|i}} Swingle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大翼橙属]]'''　'''''Papeda''''' Hassk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[枳属]]'''　'''''Poncirus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佛手属]]'''　'''''Sarcodactilis''''' C. F. Gaertn.
*19. '''[[臭常山属]]'''　'''''Orixa''''' Thunb.
*20. '''[[香肉果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Casimiroa'''''|i}} La Llave
*21. '''[[白鲜属]]'''　'''''Dictamnus''''' L.
*22. '''[[茵芋属]]'''　'''''Skimmia''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[月桂茵芋属]]'''　'''''Anquetilia''''' Decne.
*23. '''[[榆橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ptelea'''''|i}} L.
*24. '''[[丽芸木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calodendrum'''''|i}} Thunb.
*25. '''[[石南芸木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coleonema'''''|i}} Bartl. & H. L. Wendl.
*26. '''[[墨西哥橘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Choisya'''''|i}} Kunth
*27. '''[[荆笛香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ravenia'''''|i}} Vell.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽荆笛香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lemonia'''''|i}} Lindl.
*28. '''[[黄檗属]]''' {{Sm|(黄柏属)}}　'''''Phellodendron''''' Rupr.
*29. '''[[吴茱萸属]]'''　'''''Tetradium''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楝叶吴萸属]]'''　'''''Megabotrya''''' Hance ex Walp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无腺吴萸属]]'''　'''''Philagonia''''' Blume
*30. '''[[飞龙掌血属]]'''　'''''Toddalia''''' Juss.
*31. '''[[花椒属]]'''　'''''Zanthoxylum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[崖椒属]]'''　'''''Fagara''''' L.
*32. '''[[白铁木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vepris'''''|i}} Comm. ex A. Juss.
*33. '''[[巨盘木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Flindersia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*34. '''[[蜡南香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriostemon'''''|i}} Sm.
*35. '''[[钟南香属]]''' {{Sm|(澳吊钟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Correa'''''|i}} Andrews
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[折瓣钟南香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Antommarchia'''''|i}} Colla
*36. '''[[石南香属]]''' {{Sm|(香波龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Boronia'''''|i}} Sm.
*37. '''[[洋茱萸属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euodia'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*38. '''[[蜜茱萸属]]'''　'''''Melicope''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红茱萸属]]''' {{Sm|(小尤第木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Evodiella'''''|i}} B. L. Linden
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三桠苦属]]'''　'''''Lepta''''' Lour.
*39. '''[[山油柑属]]'''　'''''Acronychia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贡甲属]]'''　'''''Maclurodendron''''' T. G. Hartley
===396. [[苦木科]]　Simaroubaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[苦木属]]''' {{Sm|(苦树属)}}　'''''Picrasma''''' Blume
*2. '''[[臭椿属]]'''　'''''Ailanthus''''' Desf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岭南臭椿属]]'''　'''''Pongelion''''' Adans.
*3. '''[[鸦胆子属]]'''　'''''Brucea''''' J. F. Mill.
*4. '''[[红雀椿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Quassia'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[马来参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eurycoma'''''|i}} Jack
*6. '''[[苦香木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Simaba'''''|i}} Aubl.
===397. [[楝科]]　Meliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[麻楝属]]'''　'''''Chukrasia''''' A. Juss.
*2. '''[[香椿属]]'''　'''''Toona''''' (Endl.) M. Roem.
*3. '''[[洋椿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cedrela'''''|i}} P. Browne
*4. '''[[木果楝属]]'''　'''''Xylocarpus''''' J. Koenig
*5. '''[[桃花心木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Swietenia'''''|i}} Jacq.
*6. '''[[非洲楝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Khaya'''''|i}} A. Juss.
*7. '''[[苦油楝属]]''' {{Sm|(苦油树属，蟹木楝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carapa'''''|i}} Aubl.
*8. '''[[印楝属]]''' {{Sm|(蒜楝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Azadirachta'''''|i}} A. Juss.
*9. '''[[楝属]]'''　'''''Melia''''' L.
*10. '''[[仙都果属]]''' {{Sm|(山陀儿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sandoricum'''''|i}} Rumph. ex Cav.
*11. '''[[割舌树属]]'''　'''''Walsura''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南割舌树属]]'''　'''''Napeodendron''''' Ridl.
*12. '''[[鹧鸪花属]]'''　'''''Heynea''''' Roxb.
*13. '''[[地黄连属]]'''　'''''Munronia''''' Wight
*14. '''[[浆果楝属]]'''　'''''Cipadessa''''' Blume
*15. '''[[帚木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichilia'''''|i}} P. Browne
*16. '''[[红笼果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nymania'''''|i}} Lindb.
*17. '''[[杜楝属]]''' {{Sm|(金银楝属)}}　'''''Turraea''''' L.
*18. '''[[香驼楝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guarea'''''|i}} F. Allam. ex L.
*19. '''[[溪桫属]]'''　'''''Chisocheton''''' Blume
*20. '''[[樫木属]]'''　'''''Dysoxylum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花樫木属]]'''　'''''Epicharis''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兰屿樫木属]]'''　'''''Goniocheton''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新西兰樫木属]]'''　'''''Hartighsea''''' A. Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花樫木属]]'''　'''''Piptosaccos''''' Turcz.
*21. '''[[山楝属]]'''　'''''Aphanamixis''''' Blume
*22. '''[[米仔兰属]]'''　'''''Aglaia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山椤属]]'''　'''''Nemedra''''' A. Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马肾果属]]'''　'''''Nialel''''' Adans.
*23. '''[[铁椤属]]'''　'''''Oraoma''''' Turcz.
*24. '''[[崖摩属]]'''　'''''Amoora''''' Roxb.
*25. '''[[龙宫果属]]''' {{Sm|(榔色木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lansium'''''|i}} Corrêa
*26. '''[[雷楝属]]'''　'''''Reinwardtiodendron''''' Koord.
==112. 腺椒树目　Huerteales==
===398. [[瘿椒树科]]　Tapisciaceae Takht.===
*1. '''[[瘿椒树属]]''' {{Sm|(银鹊树属)}}　'''''Tapiscia''''' Oliv.
===399. [[十齿花科]]　Dipentodontaceae Merr.===
*1. '''[[十齿花属]]'''　'''''Dipentodon''''' Dunn
*2. '''[[核子木属]]'''　'''''Perrottetia''''' Kunth
==113. 锦葵目　Malvales==
===400. [[文定果科]]　Muntingiaceae C. Bayer, M. W. Chase & M. F. Fay===
*1. '''[[文定果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Muntingia'''''|i}} L.
===401. [[锦葵科]]　Malvaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[瘤果麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guazuma'''''|i}} Mill.
*2. '''[[可可属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Theobroma'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[昂天莲属]]'''　'''''Abroma''''' Jacq.
*4. '''[[鹧鸪麻属]]'''　'''''Kleinhovia''''' L.
*5. '''[[刺果麻属]]'''　'''''Ayenia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺果藤属]]'''　'''''Byttneria''''' Loefl.
*6. '''[[马松子属]]'''　'''''Melochia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞序马松子属]]'''　'''''Visenia''''' Houtt.
*7. '''[[蛇婆子属]]'''　'''''Waltheria''''' L.
*8. '''[[密钟木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hermannia'''''|i}} L.
*9. '''[[山麻树属]]'''　'''''Commersonia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*10. '''[[浮标麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Entelea'''''|i}} R. Br.
*11. '''[[垂蕾树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sparrmannia'''''|i}} L. f.
*12. '''[[黄麻属]]'''　'''''Corchorus''''' L.
*13. '''[[刺蒴麻属]]'''　'''''Triumfetta''''' L.
*14. '''[[刺蓟麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clappertonia'''''|i}} Meisn.
*15. '''[[马鞭麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Luehea'''''|i}} Willd.
*16. '''[[破布叶属]]''' {{Sm|(布渣叶属)}}　'''''Microcos''''' L.
*17. '''[[一担柴属]]'''　'''''Colona''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳叶一担柴属]]'''　'''''Diplophractum''''' Desf.
*18. '''[[扁担杆属]]'''　'''''Grewia''''' L.
*19. '''[[滇桐属]]'''　'''''Craigia''''' W. W. Sm. & W. E. Evans
*20. '''[[椴属]]''' {{Sm|(椴树属)}}　'''''Tilia''''' L.
*21. '''[[榴梿属]]''' {{Sm|(榴莲属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Durio'''''|i}} Adans.
*22. '''[[山芝麻属]]'''　'''''Helicteres''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雁婆麻属]]'''　'''''Camaion''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灰毛山芝麻属]]'''　'''''Methorium''''' Schott & Endl.
*23. '''[[梭罗树属]]'''　'''''Reevesia''''' Lindl.
*24. '''[[六翅木属]]'''　'''''Berrya''''' Roxb.
*25. '''[[海南椴属]]'''　'''''Hainania''''' Merr.
*26. '''[[酒瓶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachychiton'''''|i}} Schott & Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩生酒瓶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Delabechea'''''|i}} Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杨叶酒瓶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Poecilodermis'''''|i}} Schott & Endl.
*27. '''[[银叶树属]]'''　'''''Heritiera''''' Aiton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝴蝶树属]]'''　'''''Tarrietia''''' Blume
*28. '''[[苹婆属]]'''　'''''Sterculia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[碗花苹婆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chichaea'''''|i}} C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狮苹婆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triphaca'''''|i}} Lour.
*29. '''[[可乐果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cola'''''|i}} Schott & Endl.
*30. '''[[翅苹婆属]]'''　'''''Pterygota''''' Schott & Endl.
*31. '''[[闭果桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hildegardia'''''|i}} Schott & Endl.
*32. '''[[梧桐属]]'''　'''''Firmiana''''' Marsili
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火桐属]]'''　'''''Erythropsis''''' Lindl. ex Schott & Endl.
*33. '''[[胖大海属]]''' {{Sm|(船形木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Scaphium'''''|i}} Schott & Endl.
*34. '''[[舟翅桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pterocymbium'''''|i}} R. Br.
*35. '''[[柄翅果属]]'''　'''''Burretiodendron''''' Rehder
*36. '''[[蚬木属]]'''　'''''Excentrodendron''''' Hung T. Chang & R. H. Miao
*37. '''[[翅子树属]]'''　'''''Pterospermum''''' Schreb.
*38. '''[[田麻属]]'''　'''''Corchoropsis''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*39. '''[[午时花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentapetes'''''|i}} L.
*40. '''[[火绳树属]]'''　'''''Eriolaena''''' DC.
*41. '''[[梅蓝属]]'''　'''''Melhania''''' Forssk.
*42. '''[[非洲芙蓉属]]''' {{Sm|(铃铃属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dombeya'''''|i}} Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杨叶非洲芙蓉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Assonia'''''|i}} Cav.
*43. '''[[平当树属]]'''　'''''Paradombeya''''' Stapf
*44. '''[[猴面包树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adansonia'''''|i}} L.
*45. '''[[纺锤树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cavanillesia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*46. '''[[木棉属]]'''　'''''Bombax''''' L.
*47. '''[[瓜栗属]]''' {{Sm|(中美木棉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pachira'''''|i}} Aubl.
*48. '''[[山瓜栗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bombacopsis'''''|i}} Pittier
*49. '''[[吉贝属]]''' {{Sm|(爪哇木棉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ceiba'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异木棉属]]''' {{Sm|(南美木棉属，美人树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chorisia'''''|i}} Kunth
*50. '''[[番木棉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudobombax'''''|i}} Dugand
*51. '''[[轻木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ochroma'''''|i}} Sw.
*52. '''[[绵绒树属]]''' {{Sm|(法兰绒花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Fremontodendron'''''|i}} Coville
*53. '''[[蜜源葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagunaria'''''|i}} (DC.) Rchb.
*54. '''[[沼葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kosteletzkya'''''|i}} C. Presl
*55. '''[[木槿属]]'''　'''''Hibiscus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[辐射刺芙蓉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Canhamo'''''|i}} Perini
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芙蓉葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Muenchhusia'''''|i}} Heist. ex Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玫瑰茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sabdariffa'''''|i}} (DC.) Kostel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野西瓜苗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trionum'''''|v}} L.
*56. '''[[长爪槿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macrostelia'''''|i}} Hochr.
*57. '''[[秋葵属]]'''　'''''Abelmoschus''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄蜀葵属]]'''　'''''Diplanoma''''' Raf.
*58. '''[[悬铃花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malvaviscus'''''|i}} Fabr.
*59. '''[[马葵属]]''' {{Sm|(旋葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Malachra'''''|v}} L.
*60. '''[[孔雀葵属]]''' {{Sm|(粉葵属，巴氏槿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pavonia'''''|i}} Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灯笼葵属]]''' {{Sm|(干花槿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Goethea'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[戟叶孔雀葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Greevesia'''''|i}} F. Muell.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沼孔雀葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malache'''''|i}} B. Vogel
*61. '''[[枣叶槿属]]'''　'''''Nayariophyton''''' T. K. Paul
*62. '''[[翅果麻属]]'''　'''''Kydia''''' Roxb.
*63. '''[[梵天花属]]'''　'''''Urena''''' L.
*64. '''[[黄槿属]]'''　'''''Talipariti''''' Fryxell
*65. '''[[十裂葵属]]'''　'''''Decaschistia''''' Wight & Arn.
*66. '''[[乔槿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bombycidendron'''''|i}} Zoll. & Moritzi
*67. '''[[大萼葵属]]'''　'''''Cenocentrum''''' Gagnep.
*68. '''[[合柱槿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alyogyne'''''|i}} Alef.
*69. '''[[桐棉属]]''' {{Sm|(肖槿属)}}　'''''Thespesia''''' Sol. ex Corrêa
*70. '''[[白脚桐棉属]]'''　'''''Azanza''''' Alef.
*71. '''[[棉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gossypium'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旱地棉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erioxylum'''''|i}} Rose & Standl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海岛棉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neogossypium'''''|i}} (Wout.) Roberty
*72. '''[[球葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sphaeralcea'''''|v}} A. St.-Hil.
*73. '''[[野蜀葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Iliamna'''''|i}} Greene
*74. '''[[牧葵属]]''' {{Sm|(马洛葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Malope'''''|i}} L.
*75. '''[[锦葵属]]'''　'''''Malva''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[药葵属]]'''　'''''Althaea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花葵属]]'''　'''''Lavatera''''' L.
*76. '''[[南非葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anisodontea'''''|i}} C. Presl
*77. '''[[玉杯葵属]]''' {{Sm|(凯泰葵属，葡萄叶葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kitaibela'''''|i}} Willd.
*78. '''[[蜀葵属]]'''　'''''Alcea''''' L.
*79. '''[[罂粟葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Callirhoe'''''|i}} Nutt.
*80. '''[[赛葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malvastrum'''''|v}} A. Gray
*81. '''[[棯葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sidalcea'''''|i}} A. Gray
*82. '''[[棒苘麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corynabutilon'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Kearney
*83. '''[[黄花棯属]]''' {{Sm|(黄花稔属)}}　'''''Sida''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长梗黄花棯属]]'''　'''''Lamarkia''''' Medik.
*84. '''[[沙棯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sidastrum'''''|v}} Baker f.
*85. '''[[金铃花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Callianthe'''''|i}} Donnell
*86. '''[[苘麻属]]'''　'''''Abutilon''''' Mill.
*87. '''[[隔蒴苘属]]'''　'''''Wissadula''''' Medik.
*88. '''[[盘果苘属]]''' {{Sm|(单花葵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anoda'''''|v}} Cav.
*89. '''[[脬果苘属]]''' {{Sm|(泡果苘属)}}　'''''Herissantia''''' Medik.
===402. [[瑞香科]]　Thymelaeaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[沉香属]]'''　'''''Aquilaria''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[土沉香属]]'''　'''''Ophispermum''''' Lour.
*2. '''[[结香属]]'''　'''''Edgeworthia''''' Meisn.
*3. '''[[毛花瑞香属]]'''　'''''Eriosolena''''' Blume
*4. '''[[鼠皮树属]]'''　'''''Rhamnoneuron''''' Gilg
*5. '''[[假狼毒属]]'''　'''''Stelleropsis''''' Pobed.
*6. '''[[荛花属]]'''　'''''Wikstroemia''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[了哥王属]]'''　'''''Capura''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛荛花属]]''' {{Sm|(毛花荛花属)}}　'''''Diplomorpha''''' Meisn.
*7. '''[[狼毒属]]'''　'''''Stellera''''' L.
*8. '''[[草瑞香属]]''' {{Sm|(粟麻属)}}　'''''Diarthron''''' Turcz.
*9. '''[[瑞香属]]'''　'''''Daphne''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五出瑞香属]]'''　'''''Pentathymelaea''''' Lecomte
*10. '''[[欧瑞香属]]'''　'''''Thymelaea''''' Mill.
*11. '''[[菊瑞香属]]''' {{Sm|(夏香属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dais'''''|i}} Royen ex L.
*12. '''[[皇冠果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phaleria'''''|i}} Jack
*13. '''[[韦木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dirca'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[米瑞香属]]''' {{Sm|(稻花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pimelea'''''|i}} Banks ex Gaertn.
===403. [[红木科]]　Bixaceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[红木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bixa'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[弯子木属]]''' {{Sm|(弯胚树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cochlospermum'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄叠树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Azeredia'''''|i}} Allem&atilde;o
===404. [[半日花科]]　Cistaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[帚石玫属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lechea'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[半日花属]]'''　'''''Helianthemum''''' Mill.
*3. '''[[岩蔷薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cistus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小岩蔷薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Halimiocistus'''''|i}} Janch. & Dans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海蔷薇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Halimium'''''|i}} (Dunal) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银石玫属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stephanocarpus'''''|i}} Spach
===405. [[龙脑香科]]　Dipterocarpaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[金蟒香属]]''' {{Sm|(异翅香属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anisoptera'''''|i}} Korth.
*2. '''[[青梅属]]'''　'''''Vatica''''' L.
*3. '''[[龙脑香属]]''' {{Sm|(双翅香属)}}　'''''Dipterocarpus''''' C. F. Gaertn.
*4. '''[[柳安属]]'''　'''''Parashorea''''' Kurz
*5. '''[[娑罗双属]]'''　'''''Shorea''''' Roxb. ex C. F. Gaertn.
*6. '''[[红鹤树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rubroshorea'''''|i}} Heckenhauer
*7. '''[[白鹤树属]]''' {{Sm|(白柳安属)}}　'''''Pentacme''''' A. DC.
*8. '''[[栎鹤树属]]''' {{Sm|(新棒果香属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neobalanocarpus'''''|i}} P. S. Ashton
*9. '''[[坡垒属]]'''　'''''Hopea''''' Roxb.
==114. 十字花目　Brassicales==
===406. [[叠珠树科]]　Akaniaceae Stapf===
*1. '''[[伯乐树属]]''' {{Sm|(钟萼木属)}}　'''''Bretschneidera''''' Hemsl.
===407. [[旱金莲科]]　Tropaeolaceae Juss. ex DC.===
*1. '''[[旱金莲属]]''' {{Sm|(金莲花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tropaeolum'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽旱金莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anisocentra'''''|i}} Turcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[镊萼金莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chymocarpus'''''|i}} D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天蓝旱金莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rixea'''''|i}} C. Morren
===408. [[辣木科]]　Moringaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[辣木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Moringa'''''|v}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭瓣辣木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Donaldsonia'''''|i}} Baker f.
===409. [[番木瓜科]]　Caricaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[番木瓜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carica'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[枝木瓜属]]''' {{Sm|(墨西哥木瓜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jacaratia'''''|i}} A. DC.
===410. [[沼沫花科]]　Limnanthaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[沼沫花属]]''' {{Sm|(沼花属，沼泽草属，假人鱼草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Limnanthes'''''|i}} R. Br.
===411. [[刺茉莉科]]　Salvadoraceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[刺茉莉属]]'''　'''''Azima''''' Lam.
===412. [[木樨草科]]　Resedaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[节蒴木属]]'''　'''''Borthwickia''''' W. W. Sm.
*2. '''[[斑果藤属]]''' {{Sm|(罗志藤属，六萼藤属)}}　'''''Stixis''''' Lour.
*3. '''[[木樨草属]]''' {{Sm|(木犀草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Reseda'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白木樨草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eresda'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川樨草属]]''' {{Sm|(川犀草属)}}　'''''Oligomeris''''' Cambess.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灰木樨草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tereianthes'''''|i}} Raf.
===413. [[山柑科]]　Capparaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[鱼木属]]'''　'''''Crateva''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙梨木属]]'''　'''''Triclanthera''''' Raf.
*2. '''[[山柑属]]'''　'''''Capparis''''' Tourn. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛眼睛属]]'''　'''''Oligloron''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[广州山柑属]]'''　'''''Olofuton''''' Raf.
===414. [[白花菜科]]　Cleomaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[鸟足菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cleome'''''|v}} L.
*2. '''[[田燕草属]]'''　'''''Corynandra''''' Schrad. ex Spreng.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花草属]]'''　'''''Arivela''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[白花菜属]]''' {{Sm|(羊角菜属)}}　'''''Gynandropsis''''' DC.
*4. '''[[绿蝶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melidiscus'''''|i}} Raf.
*5. '''[[洋白花菜属]]''' {{Sm|(西洋白花菜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cleoserrata'''''|v}} Iltis
*6. '''[[醉蝶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tarenaya'''''|v}} Raf.
===415. [[十字花科]]　Brassicaceae Burnett===
*1. '''[[岩芥菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aethionema'''''|i}} W. T. Aiton
*2. '''[[香芥属]]'''　'''''Clausia''''' Korn.-Trotzky
*3. '''[[花旗杆属]]'''　'''''Dontostemon''''' Andrz. ex Ledeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异蕊芥属]]'''　'''''Dimorphostemon''''' Kitag.
*4. '''[[离子芥属]]'''　'''''Chorispora''''' R. Br. ex DC.
*5. '''[[异果芥属]]'''　'''''Diptychocarpus''''' Trautv.
*6. '''[[脱喙荠属]]'''　'''''Litwinowia''''' Woronow
*7. '''[[条果芥属]]'''　'''''Parrya''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裸茎条果芥属]]'''　'''''Achoriphragma''''' Soják
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假香芥属]]'''　'''''Pseudoclausia''''' Popov
*8. '''[[香花芥属]]'''　'''''Hesperis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫塔芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neotchihatchewia'''''|i}} Rauschert
*9. '''[[争夕芥属]]'''　'''''Anzhengxia''''' Al-Shehbaz & D. A. German
*10. '''[[异药芥属]]'''　'''''Atelanthera''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*11. '''[[肉叶荠属]]'''　'''''Braya''''' Sternb. & Hoppe
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花肉叶荠属]]'''　'''''Beketowia''''' Krasn.
*12. '''[[高原芥属]]'''　'''''Christolea''''' Cambess.
*13. '''[[隐子芥属]]'''　'''''Cryptospora''''' Kar. & Kir.
*14. '''[[双脊荠属]]'''　'''''Dilophia''''' Thomson
*15. '''[[鸟头荠属]]''' {{Sm|(乌头荠属)}}　'''''Euclidium''''' W. T. Aiton
*16. '''[[绵果荠属]]'''　'''''Lachnoloma''''' Bunge
*17. '''[[光籽芥属]]'''　'''''Leiospora''''' (C. A. Mey.) F. Dvo&#345;ák
*18. '''[[鳞蕊芥属]]'''　'''''Lepidostemon''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*19. '''[[丝叶芥属]]'''　'''''Leptaleum''''' DC.
*20. '''[[拟中甸荠属]]'''　'''''Metashangrilaia''''' Al-Shehbaz & D. A. German
*21. '''[[念珠芥属]]''' {{Sm|(串珠芥属，扭果芥属)}}　'''''Neotorularia''''' Hedge & J. Léonard
*22. '''[[假簇芥属]]'''　'''''Pycnoplinthopsis''''' Jafri
*23. '''[[簇芥属]]'''　'''''Pycnoplinthus''''' O. E. Schulz
*24. '''[[棉线芥属]]'''　'''''Rhammatophyllum''''' O. E. Schulz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锯毛芥属]]'''　'''''Prionotrichon''''' Botsch. & Vved.
*25. '''[[甘新念珠芥属]]'''　'''''Rudolf-kamelinia''''' Al-Shehbaz & D. A. German
*26. '''[[香格里拉荠属]]'''　'''''Shangrilaia''''' Al-Shehbaz, J. P. Yue & H. Sun
*27. '''[[假蒜芥属]]'''　'''''Sisymbriopsis''''' Botsch. & Tzvelev
*28. '''[[丛菔属]]'''　'''''Solms-laubachia''''' Muschl. ex Diels
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扇叶芥属]]'''　'''''Desideria''''' Pamp.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽果芥属]]'''　'''''Eurycarpus''''' Botsch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长毛扇叶芥属]]'''　'''''Oreoblastus''''' Suslova
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柔毛藏芥属]]'''　'''''Parryopsis''''' Botsch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏芥属]]'''　'''''Phaeonychium''''' O. E. Schulz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆芥属]]'''　'''''Vvedenskyella''''' Botsch.
*29. '''[[涩芥属]]''' {{Sm|(涩荠属)}}　'''''Strigosella''''' Boiss.
*30. '''[[四齿芥属]]'''　'''''Tetracme''''' Bunge
*31. '''[[疣果荠属]]'''　'''''Bunias''''' L.
*32. '''[[紫罗兰属]]'''　'''''Matthiola''''' R. Br. ex W. T. Aiton
*33. '''[[小柱芥属]]'''　'''''Microstigma''''' Trautv.
*34. '''[[棒果芥属]]'''　'''''Sterigmostemum''''' M. Bieb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爪花芥属]]'''　'''''Oreoloma''''' Botsch.
*35. '''[[连蕊芥属]]'''　'''''Synstemon''''' Botsch.
*36. '''[[庭荠属]]'''　'''''Alyssum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲庭荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Konig'''''|v}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗果庭荠属]]'''　'''''Psilonema''''' C. A. Mey.
*37. '''[[金庭荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aurinia'''''|i}} Desv.
*38. '''[[翅籽荠属]]''' {{Sm|(翅果荠属)}}　'''''Galitzkya''''' V. V. Botschantz.
*39. '''[[团扇荠属]]'''　'''''Berteroa''''' DC.
*40. '''[[扭庭荠属]]'''　'''''Meniocus''''' Desv.
*41. '''[[气球荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bornmuellera'''''|i}} Hausskn.
*42. '''[[单盾荠属]]'''　'''''Fibigia''''' Medik.
*43. '''[[长柄芥属]]'''　'''''Macropodium''''' R. Br. ex W. T. Aiton
*44. '''[[曙南芥属]]'''　'''''Stevenia''''' Adams ex Fisch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锥果芥属]]'''　'''''Berteroella''''' O. E. Schulz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[燥原荠属]]'''　'''''Ptilotrichum''''' C. A. Mey.
*45. '''[[针喙芥属]]'''　'''''Acirostrum''''' Y. Z. Zhao
*46. '''[[南芥属]]'''　'''''Arabis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳叶南芥属]]'''　'''''Abasicarpon''''' (Andrz. ex Rchb.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚南芥属]]'''　'''''Altriarabis''''' Y. Z. Zhao
*47. '''[[南庭荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aubrieta'''''|i}} Adans.
*48. '''[[白马芥属]]'''　'''''Baimashania''''' Al-Shehbaz
*49. '''[[木南芥属]]'''　'''''Dendroarabis''''' (C. A. Mey. & Bunge) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz
*50. '''[[葶苈属]]'''　'''''Draba''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穴丝荠属]]'''　'''''Coelonema''''' Maxim.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假葶苈属]]'''　'''''Drabopsis''''' K. Koch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[半抱茎葶苈属]]'''　'''''Holargidium''''' Turcz. ex Ledeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喜山葶苈属]]'''　'''''Pseudobraya''''' Korsh.
*51. '''[[厚脉芥属]]'''　'''''Pachyneurum''''' Bunge
*52. '''[[腋花芥属]]'''　'''''Parryodes''''' Jafri
*53. '''[[莛南芥属]]'''　'''''Scapiarabis''''' M. Koch, R. Karl, D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz
*54. '''[[刚毛南芥属]]'''　'''''Sinoarabis''''' R. Karl, D. A. German, M. Koch & Al-Shehbaz
*55. '''[[双果荠属]]'''　'''''Megadenia''''' Maxim.
*56. '''[[银扇草属]]''' {{Sm|(缎花属，便士花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lunaria'''''|i}} L.
*57. '''[[双盾荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Biscutella'''''|i}} L.
*58. '''[[辣根属]]''' {{Sm|(马萝卜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Armoracia'''''|v}} G. Gaertn., B. Mey. & Scherb.
*59. '''[[山芥属]]'''　'''''Barbarea''''' R. Br. ex W. T. Aiton
*60. '''[[碎米荠属]]'''　'''''Cardamine''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阿玉芥属]]'''　'''''Ayushania''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石芥花属]]'''　'''''Dentaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[堇色芥属]]'''　'''''Jinsejie''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[弯蕊芥属]]'''　'''''Loxostemon''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[首阳芥属]]'''　'''''Shouyangshania''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细叶碎米荠属]]'''　'''''Sphaerotorrhiza''''' (O. E. Schulz) A. P. Khokhr.
*61. '''[[地梅芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leavenworthia'''''|i}} Torr.
*62. '''[[豆瓣菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nasturtium'''''|v}} R. Br. ex W. T. Aiton
*63. '''[[蔊菜属]]'''　'''''Rorippa''''' Scop.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山芥叶蔊菜属]]'''　'''''Tetrapoma''''' Turcz. ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*64. '''[[独行菜属]]'''　'''''Lepidium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[家独行菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cardamon'''''|v}} Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[群心菜属]]'''　'''''Cardaria''''' Desv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭荠属]]''' {{Sm|(硬果荠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Coronopus'''''|v}} Zinn
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美独行菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dileptium'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[膜囊荠属]]''' {{Sm|(短喙荠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hymenophysa'''''|v}} C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柱毛独行菜属]]'''　'''''Nasturtioides''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[田野独行菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neolepia'''''|v}} W. A. Weber
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光膜囊荠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Physolepidion'''''|v}} Schrenk
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[革叶荠属]]'''　'''''Stroganowia''''' Kar. & Kir.
*65. '''[[播娘蒿属]]'''　'''''Descurainia''''' Webb & Berthel.
*66. '''[[薄果荠属]]'''　'''''Hornungia''''' Rchb.
*67. '''[[葶芥属]]'''　'''''Ianhedgea''''' Al-Shehbaz & O'Kane
*68. '''[[芹叶荠属]]'''　'''''Smelowskia''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏荠属]]'''　'''''Hedinia''''' Ostenf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华羽芥属]]'''　'''''Sinosophiopsis''''' Al-Shehbaz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽裂叶荠属]]''' {{Sm|(羽裂荠属)}}　'''''Sophiopsis''''' O. E. Schulz
*69. '''[[阴山荠属]]'''　'''''Yinshania''''' Ma & Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉毛荠属]]'''　'''''Bifurcipilus''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[川西荠属]]'''　'''''Chuanxinia''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棒毛荠属]]'''　'''''Cochleariella''''' Y. H. Zhang & Vogt
*70. '''[[糖芥属]]'''　'''''Erysimum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桂竹香属]]'''　'''''Cheiranthus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棱果芥属]]'''　'''''Syrenia''''' Andrz. ex Besser
*71. '''[[旗杆芥属]]'''　'''''Turritis''''' L.
*72. '''[[无苞芥属]]'''　'''''Olimarabidopsis''''' Al-Shehbaz, O'Kane & R. A. Price
*73. '''[[拟南芥属]]''' {{Sm|(鼠耳芥属)}}　'''''Arabidopsis''''' (DC.) Heynh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小拟南芥属]]'''　'''''Stenophragma''''' &#268;elak.
*74. '''[[亚麻荠属]]'''　'''''Camelina''''' Crantz
*75. '''[[荠属]]'''　'''''Capsella''''' Medik.
*76. '''[[垂果南芥属]]'''　'''''Catolobus''''' Al-Shehbaz
*77. '''[[球果荠属]]'''　'''''Neslia''''' Desv.
*78. '''[[假鼠耳芥属]]'''　'''''Pseudoarabidopsis''''' Al-Shehbaz, O'Kane & R. A. Price
*79. '''[[蛇头荠属]]'''　'''''Dipoma''''' Franch.
*80. '''[[半脊荠属]]'''　'''''Hemilophia''''' Franch.
*81. '''[[须弥芥属]]'''　'''''Crucihimalaya''''' Al-Shehbaz, O'Kane & R. A. Price
*82. '''[[钻叶荠属]]'''　'''''Subularia''''' L.
*83. '''[[高河菜属]]'''　'''''Megacarpaea''''' DC.
*84. '''[[沙芥属]]'''　'''''Pugionium''''' Gaertn.
*85. '''[[屈曲花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Iberis'''''|i}} L.
*86. '''[[钻石花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ionopsidium'''''|i}} Rchb.
*87. '''[[对枝菜属]]'''　'''''Cithareloma''''' Bunge
*88. '''[[香雪球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lobularia'''''|i}} Desv.
*89. '''[[希腊芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Malcolmia'''''|i}} W. T. Aiton
*90. '''[[寒原荠属]]'''　'''''Aphragmus''''' Andrz. ex DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[弯梗芥属]]'''　'''''Lignariella''''' Baehni
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆寒原荠属]]'''　'''''Orobium''''' Rchb.
*91. '''[[线果芥属]]'''　'''''Conringia''''' Heist. ex Fabr.
*92. '''[[山菥蓂属]]'''　'''''Noccaea''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小菥蓂属]]'''　'''''Disynoma''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏菥蓂属]]''' {{Sm|(小蜂室花属)}}　'''''Iberidella''''' Boiss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贯叶菥蓂属]]'''　'''''Kandis''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[脉菥蓂属]]''' {{Sm|(脉翼荠属)}}　'''''Neurotropis''''' (DC.) F. K. Mey.
*93. '''[[四棱荠属]]'''　'''''Goldbachia''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[螺喙荠属]]''' {{Sm|(螺果荠属)}}　'''''Spirorhynchus''''' Kar. & Kir.
*94. '''[[匙荠属]]'''　'''''Leiocarpaea''''' (C. A. Mey.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz
*95. '''[[山萮菜属]]'''　'''''Eutrema''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶芥属]]'''　'''''Cordatifolium''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冰川沟子荠属]]'''　'''''Glaribraya''''' H. Hara
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[横断荠属]]'''　'''''Hengduanshania''''' Y. Z. Zhao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[堇叶芥属]]'''　'''''Neomartinella''''' Pilg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽框荠属]]'''　'''''Platycraspedum''''' O. E. Schulz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沟子荠属]]'''　'''''Taphrospermum''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盐芥属]]'''　'''''Thellungiella''''' O. E. Schulz
*96. '''[[单花荠属]]'''　'''''Pegaeophyton''''' Hayek & Hand.-Mazz.
*97. '''[[葱芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alliaria'''''|v}} Heist. ex Fabr.
*98. '''[[菥蓂属]]'''　'''''Thlaspi''''' L.
*99. '''[[条叶盐芥属]]'''　'''''Schrenkiella''''' D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz
*100. '''[[华葱芥属]]'''　'''''Sinalliaria''''' X. F. Jin, Y. Y. Zhou & H. W. Zhang
*101. '''[[诸葛菜属]]'''　'''''Orychophragmus''''' Bunge
*102. '''[[二行芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diplotaxis'''''|v}} DC.
*103. '''[[芝麻菜属]]'''　'''''Eruca''''' Mill.
*104. '''[[短喙芥属]]'''　'''''Guenthera''''' Andrz. ex Besser
*105. '''[[白芥属]]'''　'''''Sinapis''''' L.
*106. '''[[假芸薹属]]''' {{Sm|(匕果芥属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rapistrum'''''|v}} Crantz
*107. '''[[两节荠属]]''' {{Sm|(两行荠属)}}　'''''Crambe''''' L.
*108. '''[[芸薹属]]''' {{Sm|(芸苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brassica'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔓菁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rapa'''''|v}} Mill.
*109. '''[[黑芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mutarda'''''|v}} Bernh.
*110. '''[[萝卜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raphanus'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野萝卜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raphanistrum'''''|v}} Mill.
*111. '''[[灰芥属]]''' {{Sm|(短果芥属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hirschfeldia'''''|v}} Moench
*112. '''[[菘蓝属]]'''　'''''Isatis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚壁荠属]]''' {{Sm|(厚翅荠属)}}　'''''Pachypterygium''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舟果荠属]]'''　'''''Tauscheria''''' Fisch. ex DC.
*113. '''[[大蒜芥属]]'''　'''''Sisymbrium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆大蒜芥属]]'''　'''''Leptocarpaea''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钻果大蒜芥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Velarum'''''|v}} Rchb.
*114. '''[[泡果荠属]]'''　'''''Hilliella''''' (O. E. Schulz) Y. H. Zhang & H. W. Li
*115. '''[[高山荠属]]'''　'''''Shehbazia''''' D. A. German
==115. 红珊藤目　Berberidopsidales==
===416. [[红珊藤科]]　Berberidopsidaceae Takht.===
*1. '''[[红珊藤属]]''' {{Sm|(智利藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Berberidopsis'''''|i}} Hook. f.
==116. 檀香目　Santalales==
===417. [[润肺木科]]　Strombosiaceae Tiegh.===
*1. '''[[蒜味果属]]''' {{Sm|(蒜果木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Scorodocarpus'''''|i}} Becc.
===418. [[赤苍藤科]]　Erythropalaceae Planch. ex Miq.===
*1. '''[[赤苍藤属]]'''　'''''Erythropalum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度赤苍藤属]]'''　'''''Modeccopsis''''' Griff.
===419. [[海檀木科]]　Ximeniaceae Horan.===
*1. '''[[蒜头果属]]''' {{Sm|(马兰木属)}}　'''''Malania''''' Chun & S. K. Lee
*2. '''[[海檀木属]]'''　'''''Ximenia''''' Plum. ex L.
===420. [[兜帽果科]]　Aptandraceae Miers===
*1. '''[[迦楼果属]]'''　'''''Anacolosa''''' Blume
===421. [[铁青树科]]　Olacaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[铁青树属]]'''　'''''Olax''''' L.
===422. [[蛇菰科]]　Balanophoraceae Rich.===
*1. '''[[蛇菰属]]'''　'''''Balanophora''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鸟黐蛇菰属]]'''　'''''Balaneikon''''' Setch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三药蛇菰属]]'''　'''''Balania''''' Tiegh.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长枝蛇菰属]]'''　'''''Cynopsole''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多蕊蛇菰属]]'''　'''''Polyplethia''''' (Griff.) Tiegh.
*2. '''[[盾片蛇菰属]]''' {{Sm|(双柱蛇菰属)}}　'''''Rhopalocnemis''''' Jungh.
===423. [[山柚子科]]　Opiliaceae Valeton===
*1. '''[[台湾山柚属]]'''　'''''Champereia''''' Griff.
*2. '''[[甜菜树属]]'''　'''''Yunnanopilia''''' C. Y. Wu & D. Z. Li
*3. '''[[山柚子属]]'''　'''''Opilia''''' Roxb.
*4. '''[[鳞尾木属]]'''　'''''Lepionurus''''' Blume
*5. '''[[尾球木属]]'''　'''''Urobotrya''''' Stapf
*6. '''[[山柑藤属]]'''　'''''Cansjera''''' Juss.
===424. [[檀香科]]　Santalaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[米面蓊属]]'''　'''''Buckleya''''' Torr.
*2. '''[[百蕊草属]]'''　'''''Thesium''''' L.
*3. '''[[檀梨属]]'''　'''''Pyrularia''''' Michx.
*4. '''[[硬核属]]'''　'''''Scleropyrum''''' Arn.
*5. '''[[檀香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Santalum'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[沙针属]]'''　'''''Osyris''''' L.
*7. '''[[异花寄生属]]'''　'''''Dufrenoya''''' Chatin
*8. '''[[重寄生属]]''' {{Sm|(鳞叶寄生木属)}}　'''''Phacellaria''''' Benth.
*9. '''[[寄生藤属]]'''　'''''Dendrotrophe''''' Miq.
*10. '''[[栗寄生属]]'''　'''''Korthalsella''''' Tiegh.
*11. '''[[油杉寄生属]]'''　'''''Arceuthobium''''' M. Bieb.
*12. '''[[槲寄生属]]'''　'''''Viscum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扁枝槲寄生属]]'''　'''''Aspidixia''''' Tiegh.
===425. [[青皮木科]]　Schoepfiaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[青皮木属]]'''　'''''Schoepfia''''' Schreb.
===426. [[桑寄生科]]　Loranthaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[鞘花属]]'''　'''''Macrosolen''''' (Blume) Blume
*2. '''[[大苞鞘花属]]'''　'''''Elytranthe''''' (Blume) Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[墨脱大苞鞘花属]]'''　'''''Iticania''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[桑寄生属]]'''　'''''Loranthus''''' Jacq.
*4. '''[[柳叶寄生属]]'''　'''''Phyllodesmis''''' Tiegh.
*5. '''[[钝果寄生属]]'''　'''''Taxillus''''' Tiegh.
*6. '''[[梨果寄生属]]'''　'''''Scurrula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇藏梨果寄生属]]'''　'''''Antriba''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锈毛梨果寄生属]]'''　'''''Etubila''''' Raf.
*7. '''[[大苞寄生属]]'''　'''''Tolypanthus''''' (Blume) Blume
*8. '''[[离瓣寄生属]]'''　'''''Helixanthera''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[景洪离瓣寄生属]]'''　'''''Strepsimela''''' Raf.
*9. '''[[五蕊寄生属]]'''　'''''Dendrophthoe''''' Mart.
==117. 石竹目　Caryophyllales==
===427. [[瓣鳞花科]]　Frankeniaceae Desv.===
*1. '''[[瓣鳞花属]]'''　'''''Frankenia''''' L.
===428. [[柽柳科]]　Tamaricaceae Link===
*1. '''[[红砂属]]'''　'''''Hololachna''''' Ehrenb.
*2. '''[[琵琶柴属]]''' {{Sm|(红砂属)}}　'''''Reaumuria''''' L.
*3. '''[[柽柳属]]'''　'''''Tamarix''''' L.
*4. '''[[秀柏枝属]]''' {{Sm|(山柽柳属，水柏柽属)}}　'''''Myrtama''''' Ovcz. & Kinzik.
*5. '''[[水柏枝属]]'''　'''''Myricaria''''' Desv.
===429. [[白花丹科]]　Plumbaginaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[蓝雪花属]]''' {{Sm|(角柱花属)}}　'''''Ceratostigma''''' Bunge
*2. '''[[鸡娃草属]]''' {{Sm|(小蓝雪花属)}}　'''''Plumbagella''''' Spach
*3. '''[[白花丹属]]'''　'''''Plumbago''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝花丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plumbagidium'''''|i}} Spach
*4. '''[[紫条木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aegialitis'''''|i}} R. Br.
*5. '''[[补血草属]]'''　'''''Limonium''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[澳洲补血草属]]'''　'''''Taxanthema''''' Neck. ex R. Br.
*6. '''[[秀穗花属]]''' {{Sm|(长筒补血草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Psylliostachys'''''|i}} (Jaub. & Spach) Nevski
*7. '''[[海石竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Armeria'''''|i}} Willd.
*8. '''[[驼舌草属]]''' {{Sm|(棱枝草属)}}　'''''Goniolimon''''' Boiss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伊犁花属]]'''　'''''Ikonnikovia''''' Lincz.
*9. '''[[彩花属]]''' {{Sm|(刺矶松属)}}　'''''Acantholimon''''' Boiss.
===430. [[蓼科]]　Polygonaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[珊瑚藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Antigonon'''''|i}} Endl.
*2. '''[[海葡萄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coccoloba'''''|i}} P. Browne
*3. '''[[蓼树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triplaris'''''|i}} Loefl.
*4. '''[[苞蓼属]]''' {{Sm|(绒毛蓼属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eriogonum'''''|i}} Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西苞蓼属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eucycla'''''|i}} Nutt.
*5. '''[[蓼属]]'''　'''''Persicaria''''' (L.) Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火炭母属]]'''　'''''Ampelygonum''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金线草属]]'''　'''''Antenoron''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[头状蓼属]]'''　'''''Cephalophilon''''' (Meisn.) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扛板归属]]'''　'''''Chylocalyx''''' Hassk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马蓼属]]'''　'''''Discolenta''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宾州蓼属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dioctis'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[箭头蓼属]]'''　'''''Echinocaulon''''' (Meisn.) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红蓼属]]'''　'''''Goniaticum''''' Stokes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛蓼属]]'''　'''''Pogalis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二歧蓼属]]'''　'''''Spermaulaxen''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[战戟蓼属]]'''　'''''Tracaulon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺蓼属]]'''　'''''Truellum''''' Houtt.
*6. '''[[拳参属]]'''　'''''Bistorta''''' (L.) Scop.
*7. '''[[冰岛蓼属]]'''　'''''Koenigia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[神血宁属]]'''　'''''Aconogonon''''' (Meisn.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山神血宁属]]'''　'''''Gononcus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多穗蓼属]]'''　'''''Rubrivena''''' M. Král
*8. '''[[荞麦属]]'''　'''''Fagopyrum''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果蓼属]]'''　'''''Parapteropyrum''''' A. J. Li
*9. '''[[翼蓼属]]''' {{Sm|(红药子属)}}　'''''Pteroxygonum''''' Dammer & Diels
*10. '''[[沙拐枣属]]'''　'''''Calligonum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[脬果沙拐枣属]]'''　'''''Calliphysa''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*11. '''[[山蓼属]]'''　'''''Oxyria''''' Hill
*12. '''[[大黄属]]'''　'''''Rheum''''' L.
*13. '''[[酸模属]]'''　'''''Rumex''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小酸模属]]'''　'''''Acetosella''''' (Raf.) Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红脉酸模属]]'''　'''''Favrodina''''' Reyn. ex J. D. Reuss
*14. '''[[西伯利亚蓼属]]'''　'''''Knorringia''''' (Czukav.) Tzvelev
*15. '''[[何首乌属]]'''　'''''Pleuropterus''''' Turcz.
*16. '''[[虎杖属]]'''　'''''Reynoutria''''' Houtt.
*17. '''[[牛皮消蓼属]]'''　'''''Parogonum''''' (Haraldson) Bo Li, Su Liu & Bing Liu
*18. '''[[藤蓼属]]'''　'''''Fallopia''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卷茎蓼属]]'''　'''''Bilderdykia''''' Dumort.
*19. '''[[千叶兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Muehlenbeckia'''''|i}} Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[竹节蓼属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Homalocladium'''''|i}} (F. J. Müll.) L. H. Bailey
*20. '''[[木蓼属]]'''　'''''Atraphaxis''''' L.
*21. '''[[萹蓄属]]'''　'''''Polygonum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝茎萹蓄属]]'''　'''''Kabulia''''' Bor & C. E. C. Fisch.
===431. [[茅膏菜科]]　Droseraceae Salisb.===
*1. '''[[捕蝇草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dionaea'''''|i}} Sol. ex J. Ellis
*2. '''[[貉藻属]]'''　'''''Aldrovanda''''' L.
*3. '''[[王茅膏菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Freatulina'''''|i}} Chrtek & Slavíková
*4. '''[[茅膏菜属]]'''　'''''Drosera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉叶茅膏菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dismophyla'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝叶毛毡苔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Filicirna'''''|i}} Raf.
===432. [[猪笼草科]]　Nepenthaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[猪笼草属]]'''　'''''Nepenthes''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无尾猪笼草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anurosperma'''''|i}} Hallier f.
===433. [[露松科]]　Drosophyllaceae Chrtek, Slavíková & Studni&#269;ka===
*1. '''[[露松属]]''' {{Sm|(露叶毛毡苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Drosophyllum'''''|i}} Link
===434. [[双钩叶科]]　Dioncophyllaceae Airy Shaw===
*1. '''[[露松藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triphyophyllum'''''|i}} Airy Shaw
===435. [[钩枝藤科]]　Ancistrocladaceae Planch. ex Walp.===
*1. '''[[钩枝藤属]]'''　'''''Ancistrocladus''''' Wall.
===436. [[油蜡树科]]　Simmondsiaceae Tiegh.===
*1. '''[[油蜡树属]]''' {{Sm|(荷荷巴属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Simmondsia'''''|i}} Nutt.
===437. [[石竹科]]　Caryophyllaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[八宝韦草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Telephium'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[治疝草属]]'''　'''''Herniaria''''' L.
*3. '''[[裸果木属]]'''　'''''Gymnocarpos''''' Forssk.
*4. '''[[荷莲豆草属]]'''　'''''Drymaria''''' Willd. ex Schult.
*5. '''[[多荚草属]]'''　'''''Polycarpon''''' Loefl. ex L.
*6. '''[[白鼓钉属]]'''　'''''Polycarpaea''''' Lam.
*7. '''[[牛漆姑属]]''' {{Sm|(拟漆姑属)}}　'''''Spergularia''''' (Pers.) J. Presl & C. Presl
*8. '''[[大爪草属]]'''　'''''Spergula''''' L.
*9. '''[[石漆姑属]]'''　'''''Pseudocherleria''''' Dillenb. & Kadereit
*10. '''[[丽漆姑属]]'''　'''''Cherleria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二花丽漆姑属]]'''　'''''Wierzbickia''''' Rchb.
*11. '''[[刺繁缕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Drypis'''''|i}} L.
*12. '''[[南漆姑属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Colobanthus'''''|i}} Bartl.
*13. '''[[漆姑草属]]'''　'''''Sagina''''' L.
*14. '''[[山漆姑属]]'''　'''''Sabulina''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奥地利山漆姑属]]'''　'''''Neumayera''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[春山漆姑属]]'''　'''''Tryphane''''' (Fenzl) Rchb.
*15. '''[[短瓣花属]]'''　'''''Brachystemma''''' D. Don
*16. '''[[囊种草属]]'''　'''''Thylacospermum''''' Fenzl
*17. '''[[福禄草属]]'''　'''''Dolophragma''''' Fenzl
*18. '''[[种阜草属]]'''　'''''Moehringia''''' L.
*19. '''[[无心菜属]]''' {{Sm|(蚤缀属)}}　'''''Arenaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫缀草属]]'''　'''''Porphyrantha''''' Rchb.
*20. '''[[独子繁缕属]]'''　'''''Schizotechium''''' (Fenzl) Rchb.
*21. '''[[薄蒴草属]]'''　'''''Lepyrodiclis''''' Fenzl
*22. '''[[柔缀草属]]'''　'''''Odontostemma''''' Benth. ex G. Don
*23. '''[[孩儿参属]]'''　'''''Pseudostellaria''''' Pax
*24. '''[[独缀草属]]'''　'''''Shivparvatia''''' Pusalkar & D. K. Singh
*25. '''[[古临草属]]'''　'''''Gooringia''''' F. N. Williams
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[类种阜草属]]'''　'''''Moehringella''''' H. Neumayer
*26. '''[[浅裂繁缕属]]'''　'''''Nubelaria''''' M. T. Sharples & E. A. Tripp
*27. '''[[硬骨繁缕属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rabelera'''''|i}} M. T. Sharples & E. A. Tripp
*28. '''[[三柱卷耳属]]'''　'''''Dichodon''''' (Bartl. ex Rchb.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[六齿卷耳属]]'''　'''''Provancheria''''' B. Boivin
*29. '''[[硬骨草属]]'''　'''''Holosteum''''' L.
*30. '''[[卷耳属]]'''　'''''Cerastium''''' L.
*31. '''[[苏瓣繁缕属]]'''　'''''Cheiropetalum''''' Fr. ex Schltdl.
*32. '''[[雀舌草属]]'''　'''''Stellaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩生繁缕属]]'''　'''''Adenonema''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白冠繁缕属]]'''　'''''Mesostemma''''' Vved.
*33. '''[[鹅肠菜属]]'''　'''''Myosoton''''' Moench
*34. '''[[繁缕属]]'''　'''''Alsine''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[腺毛繁缕属]]'''　'''''Hylebia''''' Fourr.
*35. '''[[假卷耳属]]'''　'''''Pseudocerastium''''' C. Y. Wu, X. H. Guo & X. P. Zhang
*36. '''[[老牛筋属]]'''　'''''Eremogone''''' Fenzl
*37. '''[[扁翅无心菜属]]'''　'''''Himgiria''''' Pusalkar & D. K. Singh
*38. '''[[麦仙翁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agrostemma'''''|v}} L.
*39. '''[[冠蝇草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heliosperma'''''|i}} (Rchb.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岳蝇草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ixoca'''''|i}} Raf.
*40. '''[[樱雪轮属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eudianthe'''''|i}} (Rchb.) Rchb.
*41. '''[[蝇春罗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Viscaria'''''|i}} Bernh.
*42. '''[[高雪轮属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Atocion'''''|i}} Adans.
*43. '''[[蝇子草属]]'''　'''''Silene''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细裂蝇子草属]]'''　'''''Carpophora''''' Klotzsch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杜鹃剪秋罗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coccyganthe'''''|i}} (Rchb.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[醉仙翁属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coronaria'''''|i}} Guett.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狗筋蔓属]]'''　'''''Cucubalus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜花蝇子草属]]'''　'''''Elisanthe''''' (Fenzl ex Endl.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊蝇草属]]'''　'''''Gastrolychnis''''' (Fenzl) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剪春罗属]]'''　'''''Hedona''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剪秋罗属]]'''　'''''Lychnis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[女娄菜属]]'''　'''''Melandrium''''' R&ouml;hl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白玉草属]]'''　'''''Oberna''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄雪轮属]]'''　'''''Otites''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麦瓶草属]]'''　'''''Pleconax''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭叶剪秋罗属]]'''　'''''Sofianthe''''' Tzvelev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无茎蝇子草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xamilenis'''''|i}} Raf.
*44. '''[[金铁锁属]]'''　'''''Psammosilene''''' W. C. Wu & C. Y. Wu
*45. '''[[石头花属]]''' {{Sm|(丝石竹属)}}　'''''Gypsophila''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[缕丝花属]]'''　'''''Dichoglottis''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锥花霞草属]]'''　'''''Rokejeka''''' Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麦蓝菜属]]''' {{Sm|(王不留行属)}}　'''''Vaccaria''''' Wolf
*46. '''[[肥皂草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saponaria'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩皂草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spanizium'''''|i}} Griseb.
*47. '''[[刺石竹属]]''' {{Sm|(刺叶属)}}　'''''Acanthophyllum''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卷耳霞草属]]'''　'''''Timaeosia''''' Klotzsch & Garcke
*48. '''[[异色霞草属]]'''　'''''Heterochroa''''' Bunge
*49. '''[[小霞草属]]'''　'''''Psammophiliella''''' Ikonn.
*50. '''[[膜萼花属]]''' {{Sm|(裙花属)}}　'''''Petrorhagia''''' (Ser. ex DC.) Link
*51. '''[[石竹属]]'''　'''''Dianthus''''' L.
===438. [[苋科]]　Amaranthaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Suaeda''''' Forssk. ex J. F. Gmel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异子蓬属]]'''　'''''Borsczowia''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盘果碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Brezia''''' Moq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[纵翅碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Calvelia''''' Moq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚麻叶碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Schanginia''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺毛碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Schoberia''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高碱蓬属]]'''　'''''Trikalis''''' Raf.
*2. '''[[盐千屈菜属]]'''　'''''Halopeplis''''' Bunge ex Ung.-Sternb.
*3. '''[[盐爪爪属]]'''　'''''Kalidium''''' Moq.
*4. '''[[盐穗木属]]'''　'''''Halostachys''''' C. A. Mey. ex Schrenk
*5. '''[[盐节木属]]'''　'''''Halocnemum''''' M. Bieb.
*6. '''[[蝎节木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arthrocaulon'''''|v}} Piirainen & G. Kadereit
*7. '''[[澳海蓬属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tecticornia'''''|i}} Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉苞海蓬属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Halosarcia'''''|i}} Paul G. Wilson
*8. '''[[盐角草属]]'''　'''''Salicornia''''' L.
*9. '''[[肉冰藜属]]'''　'''''Sedobassia''''' Freitag & G. Kadereit
*10. '''[[樟味藜属]]'''　'''''Camphorosma''''' L.
*11. '''[[沙冰藜属]]'''　'''''Bassia''''' All.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绒藜属]]'''　'''''Londesia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地肤属]]'''　'''''Kochia''''' Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棉藜属]]'''　'''''Kirilowia''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兜藜属]]'''　'''''Panderia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺果藜属]]'''　'''''Echinopsilon''''' Moq.
*12. '''[[雾冰藜属]]'''　'''''Grubovia''''' Freitag & G. Kadereit
*13. '''[[珍珠柴属]]'''　'''''Caroxylon''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钠猪毛菜属]]'''　'''''Nitrosalsola''''' Tzvelev
*14. '''[[小蓬属]]'''　'''''Nanophyton''''' Less.
*15. '''[[叉毛蓬属]]'''　'''''Petrosimonia''''' Bunge
*16. '''[[散枝蓬属]]'''　'''''Pyankovia''''' Akhani & Roalson
*17. '''[[盐蓬属]]'''　'''''Halimocnemis''''' C. A. Mey.
*18. '''[[梯翅蓬属]]'''　'''''Climacoptera''''' Botsch.
*19. '''[[合头草属]]''' {{Sm|(合头藜属)}}　'''''Sympegma''''' Bunge
*20. '''[[猪毛菜属]]'''　'''''Kali''''' Mill.
*21. '''[[粟特蓬属]]'''　'''''Turania''''' Akhani & Roalson
*22. '''[[木猪毛菜属]]'''　'''''Xylosalsola''''' Tzvelev
*23. '''[[新疆藜属]]'''　'''''Halothamnus''''' Jaub. & Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矛叶新疆藜属]]'''　'''''Aellenia''''' Ulbr.
*24. '''[[碱猪毛菜属]]'''　'''''Salsola''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[浆果猪毛菜属]]'''　'''''Caspia''''' Galushko
*25. '''[[戈壁藜属]]'''　'''''Iljinia''''' Korovin ex Iljin
*26. '''[[梭梭属]]''' {{Sm|(琐琐属)}}　'''''Haloxylon''''' Bunge
*27. '''[[单刺蓬属]]'''　'''''Cornulaca''''' Delile
*28. '''[[对节刺属]]'''　'''''Horaninovia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*29. '''[[节节木属]]'''　'''''Arthrophytum''''' Schrenk
*30. '''[[盐生草属]]'''　'''''Halogeton''''' C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛛丝蓬属]]''' {{Sm|(灰蓬属)}}　'''''Micropeplis''''' Bunge
*31. '''[[对叶盐蓬属]]'''　'''''Girgensohnia''''' Bunge ex Fenzl
*32. '''[[假木贼属]]'''　'''''Anabasis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盐生假木贼属]]'''　'''''Brachylepis''''' C. A. Mey. ex Ledeb.
*33. '''[[浆果苋属]]'''　'''''Deeringia''''' R. Br.
*34. '''[[多脉苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pleuropetalum'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*35. '''[[青葙属]]'''　'''''Celosia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麦穗鸡冠花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lestibudesia'''''|i}} Thouars
*36. '''[[苋属]]'''　'''''Amaranthus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凹头苋属]]'''　'''''Albersia''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合被苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amblogyna'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三被苋属]]'''　'''''Bliton''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[反枝苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euxolus'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[皱果苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glomeraria'''''|v}} Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[糙果苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Montelia'''''|v}} (Moq.) A. Gray
*37. '''[[砂苋属]]'''　'''''Allmania''''' R. Br. ex Wight
*38. '''[[长序苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Digera'''''|v}} Forssk.
*39. '''[[林地苋属]]'''　'''''Psilotrichum''''' Blume
*40. '''[[白花苋属]]'''　'''''Ouret''''' Adans.
*41. '''[[猫尾苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ptilotus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*42. '''[[青花苋属]]'''　'''''Psilotrichopsis''''' C. C. Towns.
*43. '''[[钩刺苋属]]''' {{Sm|(钩牛膝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pupalia'''''|v}} Adans.
*44. '''[[杯苋属]]'''　'''''Cyathula''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绒毛杯苋属]]'''　'''''Polyscalis''''' Wall.
*45. '''[[牛膝属]]'''　'''''Achyranthes''''' L.
*46. '''[[巨苋藤属]]'''　'''''Stilbanthus''''' Hook. f.
*47. '''[[针叶苋属]]'''　'''''Trichuriella''''' Bennet
*48. '''[[血苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Iresine'''''|i}} P. Browne
*49. '''[[莲子草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alternanthera'''''|v}} Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺花莲子草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pityranthus'''''|v}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦绣苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Telanthera'''''|i}} R. Br.
*50. '''[[安旱苋属]]'''　'''''Philoxerus''''' R. Br.
*51. '''[[千日红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gomphrena'''''|v}} L.
*52. '''[[多节草属]]'''　'''''Polycnemum''''' L.
*53. '''[[千针苋属]]'''　'''''Acroglochin''''' Schrad.
*54. '''[[甜菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Beta'''''|i}} L.
*55. '''[[沙蓬属]]'''　'''''Agriophyllum''''' M. Bieb.
*56. '''[[虫实属]]'''　'''''Corispermum''''' L.
*57. '''[[轴藜属]]'''　'''''Axyris''''' L.
*58. '''[[角果藜属]]'''　'''''Ceratocarpus''''' L.
*59. '''[[驼绒藜属]]''' {{Sm|(优若藜属)}}　'''''Krascheninnikovia''''' Gueldenst.
*60. '''[[刺藜属]]''' {{Sm|(针尖藜属)}}　'''''Teloxys''''' Moq.
*61. '''[[腺毛藜属]]'''　'''''Dysphania''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香藜属]]'''　'''''Neobotrydium''''' Moldenke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铺地藜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orthosporum'''''|v}} (R. Br.) T. Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭藜属]]'''　'''''Vulvaria''''' Bubani
*62. '''[[菠菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spinacia'''''|i}} L.
*63. '''[[球花藜属]]'''　'''''Blitum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菜藜属]]'''　'''''Anserina''''' Dumort.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单被藜属]]'''　'''''Monolepis''''' Schrad.
*64. '''[[多子藜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lipandra'''''|v}} Moq.
*65. '''[[红叶藜属]]'''　'''''Oxybasis''''' Kar. & Kir.
*66. '''[[麻叶藜属]]'''　'''''Chenopodiastrum''''' S. Fuentes, Uotila & Borsch
*67. '''[[小果滨藜属]]'''　'''''Microgynoecium''''' Hook. f.
*68. '''[[合滨藜属]]'''　'''''Halimione''''' Aellen
*69. '''[[滨藜属]]'''　'''''Atriplex''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长圆叶滨藜属]]'''　'''''Armola''''' (Kirschl.) Friche-Joset & Montandon
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉藜属]]'''　'''''Obione''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四翅滨藜属]]'''　'''''Pterochiton''''' Torr. & Frém.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鞑靼滨藜属]]'''　'''''Sclerocalymma''''' Asch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[草地滨藜属]]'''　'''''Teutliopsis''''' (Dumort.) &#268;elak.
*70. '''[[单性滨藜属]]''' {{Sm|(始滨藜属)}}　'''''Archiatriplex''''' G. L. Chu
*71. '''[[藜属]]'''　'''''Chenopodium''''' L.
*72. '''[[苞藜属]]'''　'''''Baolia''''' H. W. Kung & G. L. Chu
===439. [[针晶粟草科]]　Gisekiaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[针晶粟草属]]''' {{Sm|(吉粟草属)}}　'''''Gisekia''''' L.
===440. [[番杏科]]　Aizoaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[海马齿属]]'''　'''''Sesuvium''''' L.
*2. '''[[假海马齿属]]'''　'''''Trianthema''''' L.
*3. '''[[番杏属]]'''　'''''Tetragonia''''' L.
*4. '''[[日中花属]]''' {{Sm|(龙须海棠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mesembryanthemum'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[手指玉属]]''' {{Sm|(亲指姬属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dactylopsis'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*6. '''[[石灵玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Opophytum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*7. '''[[冰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryophytum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白冰花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Derenbergiella'''''|i}} Schwantes
*8. '''[[露花属]]''' {{Sm|(露草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aptenia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*9. '''[[镇心草属]]''' {{Sm|(显脉番杏属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sceletium'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*10. '''[[天赐木属]]''' {{Sm|(天赐属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phyllobolus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*11. '''[[日唱花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carpanthea'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*12. '''[[剑苏花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conicosia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*13. '''[[虚唱花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saphesia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*14. '''[[风唱花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hymenogyne'''''|i}} Haw.
*15. '''[[霓花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cleretum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大霓花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Micropterum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*16. '''[[琴霓花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aethephyllum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*17. '''[[彩虹花属]]''' {{Sm|(彩虹菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dorotheanthus'''''|i}} Schwantes
*18. '''[[弥生花属]]''' {{Sm|(枝干番杏属，泡叶菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Drosanthemum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*19. '''[[怪奇玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diplosoma'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[妖奇玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maughaniella'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*20. '''[[银杯玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dicrocaulon'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*21. '''[[碧光玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monilaria'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Schwantes
*22. '''[[翠桃玉属]]''' {{Sm|(卵锥属，胡桃玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oophytum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*23. '''[[舌叶花属]]''' {{Sm|(宝绿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Glottiphyllum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*24. '''[[蔓舌花属]]''' {{Sm|(蔓舌草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Malephora'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*25. '''[[藻玲玉属]]''' {{Sm|(驼峰花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gibbaeum'''''|i}} Haw. ex N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[春琴玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Argeta'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[婉玲玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mentocalyx'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝辉玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Muiria'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银光玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rimaria'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*26. '''[[露子花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Delosperma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*27. '''[[晃玉属]]''' {{Sm|(光玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Frithia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*28. '''[[梅厮木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mestoklema'''''|i}} N. E. Br. ex Glen
*29. '''[[仙宝木属]]''' {{Sm|(仙宝属，仙花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Trichodiadema'''''|i}} Schwantes
*30. '''[[丽人玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corpuscularia'''''|i}} Schwantes
*31. '''[[奇鸟玉属]]''' {{Sm|(奇鸟菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mitrophyllum'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[古鸟玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conophyllum'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[春晖玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mimetophytum'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*32. '''[[群鸟玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meyerophytum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*33. '''[[琅华木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jensenobotrya'''''|i}} A. G. J. Herre
*34. '''[[镰刀玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruschianthus'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*35. '''[[肉锥花属]]''' {{Sm|(厚锥花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Conophytum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[少将玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Derenbergia'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美翼玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Herreanthus'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[风铃玉属]]''' {{Sm|(眼天属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ophthalmophyllum'''''|i}} Dinter & Schwantes
*36. '''[[怪伟玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Odontophorus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*37. '''[[虾钳花属]]''' {{Sm|(鞘袖属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cheiridopsis'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*38. '''[[瑕刀玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ihlenfeldtia'''''|i}} H. E. K. Hartmann
*39. '''[[白鸽玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jacobsenia'''''|i}} L. Bolus & Schwantes
*40. '''[[鸾刀玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hartmanthus'''''|i}} S. A. Hammer
*41. '''[[锦辉玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Prepodesma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*42. '''[[旭波玉属]]''' {{Sm|(旭波属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rabiea'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*43. '''[[凤鸾玉属]]''' {{Sm|(对叶花属，凤卵草属，凤卵属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pleiospilos'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凤翼玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Punctillaria'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*44. '''[[拈花玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tanquana'''''|i}} H. E. K. Hartmann & Liede
*45. '''[[角鲨花属]]''' {{Sm|(昼花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nananthus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*46. '''[[鲛花属]]''' {{Sm|(菱鲛属，唐扇属，芦荟番杏属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aloinopsis'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[菱鲛花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aistocaulon'''''|i}} Poelln. ex H. Jacobsen
*47. '''[[虎鲛花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deilanthe'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*48. '''[[灵石花属]]''' {{Sm|(灵石属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Didymaotus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*49. '''[[银丽玉属]]''' {{Sm|(碧玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Antegibbaeum'''''|i}} Schwantes ex C. Weber
*50. '''[[胜矛玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cylindrophyllum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*51. '''[[斗鱼花属]]''' {{Sm|(斗鱼属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acrodon'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*52. '''[[蛇矛玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marlothistella'''''|i}} Schwantes
*53. '''[[翠峰玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brianhuntleya'''''|i}} Chess., S. A. Hammer & I. Oliv.
*54. '''[[秋矛玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bijlia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青镖玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bolusanthemum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*55. '''[[照波花属]]''' {{Sm|(照波属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bergeranthus'''''|i}} Schwantes
*56. '''[[放龙花属]]''' {{Sm|(龙骨角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hereroa'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Dinter & Schwantes
*57. '''[[菱叶草属]]''' {{Sm|(快刀乱麻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhombophyllum'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Schwantes
*58. '''[[细鳞玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cerochlamys'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*59. '''[[尖刀玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Khadia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*60. '''[[菊波花属]]''' {{Sm|(菊波属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carruanthus'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[荼波花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tischleria'''''|i}} Schwantes
*61. '''[[虎牙玉属]]''' {{Sm|(翡翠虎牙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Machairophyllum'''''|i}} Schwantes
*62. '''[[虎腭花属]]''' {{Sm|(肉黄菊属，虎颚属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Faucaria'''''|i}} Schwantes
*63. '''[[光腭花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orthopterum'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*64. '''[[锉叶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhinephyllum'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金瑕玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neorhine'''''|i}} Schwantes
*65. '''[[唐锦玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chasmatophyllum'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Dinter & Schwantes
*66. '''[[天姬玉属]]''' {{Sm|(姬天女属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neohenricia'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*67. '''[[夜舟玉属]]''' {{Sm|(齿舌叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stomatium'''''|i}} Schwantes
*68. '''[[紫波玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Antimima'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*69. '''[[白仙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Octopoma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*70. '''[[樱龙木属]]''' {{Sm|(樱龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Smicrostigma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*71. '''[[红舫花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hammeria'''''|i}} Burgoyne
*72. '''[[叠碧玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Braunsia'''''|i}} Schwantes
*73. '''[[妙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Namibia'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Dinter & Schwantes ex Schwantes
*74. '''[[龙幻玉属]]''' {{Sm|(龙幻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dracophilus'''''|i}} (Schwantes) Dinter & Schwantes
*75. '''[[飞凤玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Juttadinteria'''''|i}} Schwantes
*76. '''[[旭峰花属]]''' {{Sm|(旭峰属，帝王番杏属，绘岛属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cephalophyllum'''''|i}} (Haw.) N. E. Br.
*77. '''[[窗玉属]]''' {{Sm|(棒叶花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Fenestraria'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*78. '''[[紫霄木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leipoldtia'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*79. '''[[石豆玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hallianthus'''''|i}} H. E. K. Hartmann
*80. '''[[胧玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vanheerdea'''''|i}} L. Bolus ex H. E. K. Hartmann
*81. '''[[刺玉树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eberlanzia'''''|i}} Schwantes
*82. '''[[青须玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ebracteola'''''|i}} Dinter & Schwantes
*83. '''[[春桃玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dinteranthus'''''|i}} Schwantes
*84. '''[[魔玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lapidaria'''''|i}} (Dinter & Schwantes) Schwantes ex N. E. Br.
*85. '''[[生石花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lithops'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*86. '''[[晚霞玉属]]''' {{Sm|(施旺花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schwantesia'''''|i}} Dinter
*87. '''[[舟叶花属]]''' {{Sm|(浅矛菊属，红番属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ruschia'''''|i}} Schwantes
*88. '''[[群蝶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erepsia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[威蝶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Semnanthe'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*89. '''[[金绳玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jordaaniella'''''|i}} H. E. K. Hartmann
*90. '''[[梅仙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ottosonderia'''''|i}} L. Bolus
*91. '''[[银叶花属]]''' {{Sm|(金铃属，银石属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Argyroderma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝槌玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roodia'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*92. '''[[松叶菊属]]''' {{Sm|(细叶日中花属，辉花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lampranthus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*93. '''[[天女玉属]]''' {{Sm|(天女属，宝玉草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Titanopsis'''''|i}} Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天杯玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Verrucifera'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*94. '''[[光琳菊属]]''' {{Sm|(琴爪菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oscularia'''''|i}} Schwantes
*95. '''[[鹿角海棠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Astridia'''''|i}} Dinter
*96. '''[[剑叶花属]]''' {{Sm|(食用昼花属，匍昼花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carpobrotus'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[澳剑花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sarcozona'''''|i}} J. M. Black
*97. '''[[武玉树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stoeberia'''''|i}} Dinter & Schwantes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[侠玉树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruschianthemum'''''|i}} Friedrich
===441. [[商陆科]]　Phytolaccaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[商陆属]]'''　'''''Phytolacca''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[倍蕊商陆属]]'''　'''''Sarcoca''''' Raf.
===442. [[蒜香草科]]　Petiveriaceae C. Agardh===
*1. '''[[蒜香草属]]''' {{Sm|(毛头独子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Petiveria'''''|v}} L.
*2. '''[[铁环藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichostigma'''''|i}} A. Rich.
*3. '''[[数珠珊瑚属]]''' {{Sm|(蕾芬属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rivina'''''|v}} L.
===443. [[紫茉莉科]]　Nyctaginaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[叶子花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bougainvillea'''''|i}} Comm. ex Juss.
*2. '''[[避霜花属]]''' {{Sm|(腺果藤属)}}　'''''Pisonia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胶果木属]]'''　'''''Ceodes''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*3. '''[[沙马鞭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Abronia'''''|i}} Juss.
*4. '''[[紫茉莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mirabilis'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞茉莉属]]''' {{Sm|(山紫茉莉属)}}　'''''Oxybaphus''''' L'Hér. ex Willd.
*5. '''[[黏腺果属]]'''　'''''Commicarpus''''' Standl.
*6. '''[[黄细心属]]'''　'''''Boerhavia''''' L.
===444. [[粟米草科]]　Molluginaceae Bartl.===
*1. '''[[粟米草属]]'''　'''''Trigastrotheca''''' F. Muell.
*2. '''[[星粟草属]]'''　'''''Glinus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长梗星粟草属]]'''　'''''Nemallosis''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[毯粟草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mollugo'''''|v}} L.
*4. '''[[无茎粟草属]]'''　'''''Paramollugo''''' Thulin
*5. '''[[漆姑粟草属]]'''　'''''Hypertelis''''' E. Mey. ex Fenzl
===445. [[水卷耳科]]　Montiaceae Raf.===
*1. '''[[玉栌兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phemeranthus'''''|i}} Raf.
*2. '''[[石薇花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cistanthe'''''|i}} Spach
*3. '''[[红娘花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calandrinia'''''|i}} Kunth
*4. '''[[露薇花属]]''' {{Sm|(繁瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lewisia'''''|i}} Pursh
*5. '''[[春美草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Claytonia'''''|i}} L.
===446. [[刺戟木科]]　Didiereaceae Radlk.===
*1. '''[[马齿苋树属]]''' {{Sm|(树马齿苋属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Portulacaria'''''|i}} Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜡苋树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ceraria'''''|i}} H. Pearson & Stephens
*2. '''[[枝龙木属]]''' {{Sm|(菲赫龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Alluaudiopsis'''''|i}} Humbert & Choux
*3. '''[[亚龙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alluaudia'''''|i}} (Drake) Drake
*4. '''[[曲龙木属]]''' {{Sm|(弯曲龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Decarya'''''|i}} Choux
*5. '''[[刺戟木属]]''' {{Sm|(龙树属，刺戟草属，刺戟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Didierea'''''|i}} Baill.
===447. [[落葵科]]　Basellaceae Raf.===
*1. '''[[落葵薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anredera'''''|v}} Juss.
*2. '''[[落葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Basella'''''|v}} L.
===448. [[土人参科]]　Talinaceae Doweld===
*1. '''[[土人参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Talinum'''''|v}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棒叶土人参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eutmon'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卵圆土人参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orygia'''''|i}} Forssk.
===449. [[马齿苋科]]　Portulacaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[马齿苋属]]'''　'''''Portulaca''''' L.
===450. [[回欢草科]]　Anacampserotaceae Eggli & Nyffeler===
*1. '''[[沟栌兰属]]''' {{Sm|(拟土人参属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Talinopsis'''''|i}} A. Gray
*2. '''[[马齿藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Grahamia'''''|i}} Gillies ex Hook. & Arn.
*3. '''[[回欢草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacampseros'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[回欢龙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Avonia'''''|i}} (E. Mey. ex Fenzl) G. D. Rowley
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[回欢参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Talinaria'''''|i}} Brandegee
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩欢草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Xenia'''''|i}} Gerbaulet
===451. [[仙人掌科]]　Cactaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[海麒麟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leuenbergeria'''''|i}} Lodé
*2. '''[[木麒麟属]]''' {{Sm|(叶仙人掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pereskia'''''|v}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶木麒麟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhodocactus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) F. M. Knuth
*3. '''[[翅子掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pterocactus'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*4. '''[[圆筒掌属]]''' {{Sm|(南美圆柱仙人掌属，圆筒仙人掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Austrocylindropuntia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翁丘掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Andinopuntia'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[登龙掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Banfiopuntia'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺鳞掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Peruviopuntia'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翁筒掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudotephrocactus'''''|i}} Fri&#269; & Schelle
*5. '''[[敦丘掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cumulopuntia'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[寿星掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sphaeropuntia'''''|i}} Guiggi
*6. '''[[圆柱掌属]]''' {{Sm|(圆柱仙人掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cylindropuntia'''''|i}} (Engelm.) F. M. Knuth
*7. '''[[白峰掌属]]''' {{Sm|(鬼团扇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Grusonia'''''|i}} Rchb. f. & K. Schum.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白棒掌属]]''' {{Sm|(逆刺球属，刺团扇属，棍棒团扇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Corynopuntia'''''|i}} F. M. Knuth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青珊掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marenopuntia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*8. '''[[卧云掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maihueniopsis'''''|i}} Speg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铺云掌属]]''' {{Sm|(普纳属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Puna'''''|i}} R. Kiesling
*9. '''[[小丽掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Micropuntia'''''|i}} Daston
*10. '''[[麒麟掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pereskiopsis'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*11. '''[[翁毡掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Punotia'''''|i}} D. R. Hunt
*12. '''[[船夫掌属]]''' {{Sm|(顶花麒麟掌属，顶花仙人掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Quiabentia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*13. '''[[武士掌属]]''' {{Sm|(球形节仙人掌属，纸刺属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tephrocactus'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白狐掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ursopuntia'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
*14. '''[[戒尺掌属]]''' {{Sm|(叶团扇属，猪耳掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brasiliopuntia'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) A. Berger
*15. '''[[旗号掌属]]''' {{Sm|(墨乌帽子属，茜子掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Consolea'''''|i}} Lem.
*16. '''[[烈刺掌属]]''' {{Sm|(烈刺柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Miqueliopuntia'''''|i}} Fri&#269; ex F. Ritter
*17. '''[[仙人掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Opuntia'''''|v}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细圆掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Airampoa'''''|i}} Fri&#269;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胭脂掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nopalea'''''|v}} Salm-Dyck
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金武掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Platyopuntia'''''|i}} (Engelm.) Fri&#269; & Schelle ex Kreuz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿龙掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plutonopuntia'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛虫掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Terecaulis'''''|i}} F. Berge
*18. '''[[珊瑚掌属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Salmonopuntia'''''|i}} P. V. Heath
*19. '''[[狼烟掌属]]''' {{Sm|(长蕊掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tacinga'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*20. '''[[丽刺掌属]]''' {{Sm|(小摇属，图丽拉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tunilla'''''|i}} D. R. Hunt & Iliff
*21. '''[[卧麒麟属]]''' {{Sm|(狼牙棒属，奋迅枪属，拟叶仙人掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Maihuenia'''''|i}} (Phil. ex F. A. C. Weber) Phil. ex K. Schum.
*22. '''[[松露玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Blossfeldia'''''|i}} Werderm.
*23. '''[[金杯球属]]''' {{Sm|(刺球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acharagma'''''|i}} (N. P. Taylor) A. D. Zimmerman ex Glass
*24. '''[[岩牡丹属]]''' {{Sm|(玉牡丹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ariocarpus'''''|i}} Scheidw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙舌牡丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neogomesia'''''|i}} Casta&ntilde;eda
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龟甲牡丹属]]''' {{Sm|(连山属，岩牡丹属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Roseocactus'''''|i}} A. Berger
*25. '''[[星球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Astrophytum'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瑞凤玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maierocactus'''''|i}} E. C. Rost
*26. '''[[皱棱球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aztekium'''''|i}} Boed.
*27. '''[[凤梨球属]]''' {{Sm|(菠萝球属，顶花球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Coryphantha'''''|i}} (Engelm.) Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[侠勇球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aulacothele'''''|i}} Monv. ex Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白豹球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Escobrittonia'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫龙球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glandulifera'''''|i}} (Salm-Dyck) Fri&#269;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[幡旗玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lepidocoryphantha'''''|i}} Backeb.
*28. '''[[香蜂球属]]''' {{Sm|(薰大将属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cumarinia'''''|i}} (F. M. Knuth) Buxb.
*29. '''[[金琥属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinocactus'''''|i}} Link & Otto
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[神龙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Emorycactus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绫波球属]]''' {{Sm|(绫波属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Homalocephala'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[太平球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meyerocactus'''''|i}} Doweld
*30. '''[[清影球属]]''' {{Sm|(月世界属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Epithelantha'''''|i}} F. A. C. Weber ex Britton & Rose
*31. '''[[松笠球属]]''' {{Sm|(松球属，松笠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Escobaria'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雪花球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochiseia'''''|i}} W. H. Earle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岚山球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Escobesseya'''''|i}} Hester
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花岚球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Escocoryphantha'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[爱染球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neobesseya'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*32. '''[[强刺球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ferocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日出球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bisnaga'''''|i}} Orcutt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大虹球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brittonia'''''|i}} Houghton & C. A. Armstr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多棱球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinofossulocactus'''''|i}} Lawr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[强光玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Ferobergia'''''|i}} Glass
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[罗纱玉属]]''' {{Sm|(罗纱锦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Glandulicactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光山玉属]]''' {{Sm|(光山属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leuchtenbergia'''''|i}} Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙虎球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parrycactus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄棱玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stenocactus'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) A. Berger ex A. W. Hill
*33. '''[[庆福球属]]''' {{Sm|(欣顿球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Geohintonia'''''|i}} Glass & W. A. Fitz Maur.
*34. '''[[乌羽玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lophophora'''''|i}} J. M. Coult.
*35. '''[[乳突球属]]''' {{Sm|(银毛球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mammillaria'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓬莱球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bartschella'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丰明球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chilita'''''|i}} Orcutt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙珠球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochemiea'''''|i}} (K. Brandegee) Walton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长疣球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dolichothele'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[七子球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ebnerella'''''|i}} Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄毛球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Escobariopsis'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云峰球属]]''' {{Sm|(长花疣属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Krainzia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金手指属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leptocladodia'''''|i}} Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[月宫球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mamillopsis'''''|i}} (Morren) Weber ex Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[郎琴球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oehmea'''''|i}} Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[富贵球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phellosperma'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[关白球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Porfiria'''''|i}} Boed.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琴丝球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudomammillaria'''''|i}} Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白鳞球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Solisia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*36. '''[[雪白球属]]''' {{Sm|(满月属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mammilloydia'''''|i}} Buxb.
*37. '''[[圆锥玉属]]''' {{Sm|(圆锥棱属，裸玉属，圆锥球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neolloydia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*38. '''[[帝冠球属]]''' {{Sm|(帝冠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Obregonia'''''|i}} Fri&#269; ex A. Berger
*39. '''[[帝龙球属]]''' {{Sm|(矮疣球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ortegocactus'''''|i}} Alexander
*40. '''[[月华玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pediocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斑鸠玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Navajoa'''''|i}} Croizat
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雏鹭玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pilocanthus'''''|i}} B. W. Benson & Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[月轮玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Puebloa'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天狼玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Utahia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*41. '''[[斧突球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pelecyphora'''''|i}} Ehrenb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[松球玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Encephalocarpus'''''|i}} A. Berger
*42. '''[[武辉球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rapicactus'''''|i}} Buxb. & Oehme ex Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美针球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lodia'''''|i}} Mosco & Zanov.
*43. '''[[虹山玉属]]''' {{Sm|(琥玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sclerocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑纱玉属]]''' {{Sm|(短钩玉属，罗纱锦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ancistrocactus'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青坪玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coloradoa'''''|i}} Boissev. & C. Davidson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鱼钩球属]]''' {{Sm|(美刺球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Echinomastus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虹钩球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roseia'''''|i}} Fri&#269;
*44. '''[[独乐玉属]]''' {{Sm|(菊水属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Strombocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*45. '''[[天晃玉属]]''' {{Sm|(瘤玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Thelocactus'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长钩玉属]]''' {{Sm|(长钩球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hamatocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天照玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Torreycactus'''''|i}} Doweld
*46. '''[[升龙球属]]''' {{Sm|(姣丽球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Turbinicarpus'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Buxb. & Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红梅球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bravocactus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙境球属]]''' {{Sm|(裸玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gymnocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长城球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kadenicarpus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蔷薇球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Normanbokea'''''|i}} Kladiwa & Buxb.
*47. '''[[花铠柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Armatocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*48. '''[[狼爪玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Austrocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*49. '''[[飞龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachycereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*50. '''[[唤舞蔓属]]''' {{Sm|(灌木柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Calymmanthium'''''|i}} F. Ritter
*51. '''[[翁龙柱属]]''' {{Sm|(钟花柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Castellanosia'''''|i}} Cárdenas
*52. '''[[龙爪球属]]''' {{Sm|(龙爪玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Copiapoa'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[火蜥球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pilocopiapoa'''''|i}} F. Ritter
*53. '''[[恐龙柱属]]''' {{Sm|(恐龙角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Corryocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[潜龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erdisia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*54. '''[[树木柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dendrocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*55. '''[[壶花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eulychnia'''''|i}} Phil.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[恐怖柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Philippicereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*56. '''[[麝香柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jasminocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*57. '''[[细角柱属]]''' {{Sm|(细阁柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leptocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[树角柱属]]''' {{Sm|(乔木柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neoabbottia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*58. '''[[露舞蔓属]]''' {{Sm|(小花刺苇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lymanbensonia'''''|i}} Kimnach
*59. '''[[大冠柱属]]''' {{Sm|(大织冠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neoraimondia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[飞鸟柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neocardenasia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*60. '''[[棱玉蔓属]]''' {{Sm|(角纽属，棱丝苇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pfeiffera'''''|i}} Salm-Dyck
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉蔓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthorhipsalis'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Britton & Rose
*61. '''[[刺萼柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthocereus'''''|i}} (Engelm. ex A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[残雪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monvillea'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*62. '''[[鼠尾令箭属]]''' {{Sm|(鼠尾掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aporocactus'''''|i}} Lem.
*63. '''[[月林令箭属]]''' {{Sm|(瘤果仙人鞭属，瘤果鞭属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Weberocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短轮令箭属]]''' {{Sm|(短花孔雀属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eccremocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*64. '''[[蛇鞭柱属]]''' {{Sm|(大轮柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Selenicereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金翼令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chiapasophyllum'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鱼骨柱属]]''' {{Sm|(隐柱昙花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cryptocereus'''''|i}} Alexander
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[量天尺属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hylocereus'''''|v}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凤梨柱属]]''' {{Sm|(硬刺柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mediocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舞女令箭属]]''' {{Sm|(刺萼三棱柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Werckleocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花蔓柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wilmattea'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*65. '''[[假丝苇属]]''' {{Sm|(伪丝苇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pseudorhipsalis'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星月令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Disisorhipsalis'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[姬令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wittiocactus'''''|i}} Rauschert
*66. '''[[梅枝令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kimnachia'''''|i}} S. Arias & N. Korotkova
*67. '''[[昙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Epiphyllum'''''|v}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凤翼令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marniera'''''|i}} Backeb.
*68. '''[[红尾令箭属]]''' {{Sm|(姬孔雀属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Disocactus'''''|i}} Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙舌令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bonifazia'''''|i}} Standl. & Steyerm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[百合令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chiapasia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牡丹柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heliocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[独孤令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lobeira'''''|i}} Alexander
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[令箭荷花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nopalxochia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹿子令箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudonopalxochia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*69. '''[[碧彩柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bergerocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*70. '''[[巨人柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carnegiea'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*71. '''[[翁柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cephalocereus'''''|i}} Pfeiff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凯旋柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Haseltonia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[环翁柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neodawsonia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*72. '''[[鹿角柱属]]''' {{Sm|(鹿角掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Echinocereus'''''|i}} Engelm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银绳柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wilcoxia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*73. '''[[白焰柱属]]''' {{Sm|(角鳞柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Escontria'''''|i}} Rose
*74. '''[[群戟柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lemaireocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳞花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anisocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*75. '''[[神阁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(鸡冠柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lophocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云阁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(云阁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Marginatocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*76. '''[[悬蛇柱属]]''' {{Sm|(金字塔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Morangaya'''''|i}} G. D. Rowley
*77. '''[[龙神柱属]]''' {{Sm|(龙神木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Myrtillocactus'''''|i}} Console
*78. '''[[龟甲柱属]]''' {{Sm|(大凤龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Neobuxbaumia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[勇凤柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rooksbya'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Backeb.
*79. '''[[仙人杖属]]''' {{Sm|(夜蛇柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nyctocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
*80. '''[[摩天柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachycereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金帽柱属]]''' {{Sm|(小花翁柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mitrocereus'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Backeb.
*81. '''[[块根柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Peniocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝰蛇柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cullmannia'''''|i}} Distefano
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦蛇柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neoevansia'''''|i}} W. T. Marshall
*82. '''[[雷神柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Polaskia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夜雾柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heliabravoa'''''|i}} Backeb.
*83. '''[[南宵柱属]]''' {{Sm|(伪刺萼柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pseudoacanthocereus'''''|i}} F. Ritter
*84. '''[[顶绒柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudomitrocereus'''''|i}} Bravo & Buxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金角柱属]]''' {{Sm|(有翼柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pterocereus'''''|i}} T. MacDoug. & Miranda
*85. '''[[新绿柱属]]''' {{Sm|(狭花柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stenocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管琴柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glandulicereus'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雷斧柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hertrichocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[碧塔柱属]]''' {{Sm|(武临柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Isolatocereus'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地魔柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Machaerocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拔萃柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marshallocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翠阁柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neogriseocereus'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薮蛇柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rathbunia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青牛柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ritterocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*86. '''[[百足柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Strophocactus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽棱柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deamia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*87. '''[[猿恋苇属]]''' {{Sm|(苇仙人棒属，念珠掌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hatiora'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假昙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Epiphyllopsis'''''|i}} Backeb. & F. M. Knuth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[人字苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudozygocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[落舞苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhipsalidopsis'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*88. '''[[鳞苇属]]''' {{Sm|(斑丝苇属，有斑苇属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lepismium'''''|i}} Pfeiff.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阑干苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nothorhipsalis'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蚯蚓苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ophiorhipsalis'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Doweld
*89. '''[[丝苇属]]''' {{Sm|(仙人棒属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhipsalis'''''|i}} Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红丝苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erythrorhipsalis'''''|i}} A. Berger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麦秸苇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hylorhipsalis'''''|i}} Doweld
*90. '''[[仙人指属]]''' {{Sm|(蟹爪属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Schlumbergera'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小蟹爪属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Epiphyllanthus'''''|i}} A. Berger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蟹爪兰属]]''' {{Sm|(蟹爪属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Zygocactus'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*91. '''[[极光球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriosyce'''''|i}} Phil.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绀鸾玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chileniopsis'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伏龙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Delaetia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[登阳球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Horridocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[暗光球属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝色拉雅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Islaya'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[智利球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neoporteria'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桃熏球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nichelia'''''|i}} Bullock
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉姬球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neotanahashia'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[吼熊球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pyrrhocactus'''''|i}} A. Berger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天心球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rimacactus'''''|i}} Mottram
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[豹头球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thelocephala'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
*92. '''[[天惠球属]]''' {{Sm|(士童属，初姬球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Frailea'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*93. '''[[群岭玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neowerdermannia'''''|i}} Fri&#269;
*94. '''[[锦绣玉属]]''' {{Sm|(宝玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Parodia'''''|i}} Speg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雪晃玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthocephala'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[魔神玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bolivicactus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金绣玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brasiliparodia'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金冠玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金晃玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriocephala'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南国玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Notocactus'''''|i}} (K. Schum.) Fri&#269;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银绣玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ritterocactus'''''|i}} Doweld
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地球玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Wigginsia'''''|i}} D. M. Porter
*95. '''[[慈母球属]]''' {{Sm|(隐果球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Yavia'''''|i}} R. Kiesling & Piltz
*96. '''[[艳丽球属]]''' {{Sm|(红笠球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aylostera'''''|i}} Speg.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[晓丽球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Digitorebutia'''''|i}} Fri&#269; & Kreuz. ex Buining
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华丽球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mediolobivia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*97. '''[[群蛇柱属]]''' {{Sm|(青铜龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Browningia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佛塔柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Azureocereus'''''|i}} Akers & H. Johnson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裸花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnanthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美翠柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnocereus'''''|i}} Rauh & Backeb.
*98. '''[[裸萼球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnocalycium'''''|i}} Pfeiff. ex Mittler
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新天玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachycalycium'''''|i}} Backeb.
*99. '''[[光芒柱属]]''' {{Sm|(锥形柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lasiocereus'''''|i}} F. Ritter
*100. '''[[子孙球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rebutia'''''|i}} K. Schum.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新玉球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinorebutia'''''|i}} (Fri&#269;) Fri&#269;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝山球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eurebutia'''''|i}} (Backeb.) G. Vande Weghe
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白象球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mediorebutia'''''|i}} Buining & Donald
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑阳球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rebulobivia'''''|i}} Fri&#269;
*101. '''[[近卫柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stetsonia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*102. '''[[乳胶球属]]''' {{Sm|(尤伯球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Uebelmannia'''''|i}} Buining
*103. '''[[花饰球属]]''' {{Sm|(科轮冠属，轮冠属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Weingartia'''''|i}} Werderm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[惠毛球属]]''' {{Sm|(惠毛丸属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cintia'''''|i}} Kní&#382;e & &#344;íha
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花笠球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnantha'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝珠球属]]''' {{Sm|(有沟宝山属，沟宝山属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sulcorebutia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*104. '''[[猩冠柱属]]''' {{Sm|(猩猩冠柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arrojadoa'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金猩柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arrojadoopsis'''''|i}} Guiggi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[笔筒柱属]]''' {{Sm|(勃朗柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pierrebraunia'''''|i}} Esteves
*105. '''[[巴西柱属]]''' {{Sm|(褐凤龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brasilicereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[千针柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bragaia'''''|i}} Esteves, Hofacker & P. J. Braun
*106. '''[[仙人柱属]]''' {{Sm|(天轮柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cereus'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苍龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mirabella'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[落花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Piptanthocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[富力柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Subpilocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*107. '''[[蓝壶柱属]]''' {{Sm|(角棱柱属，西波柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cipocereus'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丰花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Floribunda'''''|i}} F. Ritter
*108. '''[[银龙柱属]]''' {{Sm|(鞘头柱属，银装龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Coleocephalocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Buiningia'''''|i}} Buxb.
*109. '''[[圆盘玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Discocactus'''''|i}} Pfeiff.
*110. '''[[红翁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(绯花柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Facheiroa'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簪翁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(小花柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Zehntnerella'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*111. '''[[刺蔓柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leocereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*112. '''[[花座球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melocactus'''''|i}} Link & Otto
*113. '''[[小花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Micranthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[端丽柱属]]''' {{Sm|(南美翁柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Austrocephalocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[独丽柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siccobaccatus'''''|i}} P. J. Braun & Esteves
*114. '''[[毛刺柱属]]''' {{Sm|(毛柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pilosocereus'''''|i}} Byles & G. D. Rowley
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝衣柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudopilocereus'''''|i}} Buxb.
*115. '''[[翠龙柱属]]''' {{Sm|(岩栖柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Praecereus'''''|i}} Buxb.
*116. '''[[毛环柱属]]''' {{Sm|(毛环翁柱属，毛环翁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stephanocereus'''''|i}} A. Berger
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酒瓶柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagenosocereus'''''|i}} Doweld
*117. '''[[关节柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arthrocereus'''''|i}} A. Berger
*118. '''[[花冠柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Borzicactus'''''|i}} Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦照柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Akersia'''''|i}} Buining
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇雪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Borzicactella'''''|i}} H. Johnson ex F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄雪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clistanthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[猛鹫柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seticereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*119. '''[[管花柱属]]''' {{Sm|(吹雪柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cleistocactus'''''|i}} Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩舞柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bolivicereus'''''|i}} Cárdenas
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[座雪柱属]]''' {{Sm|(毛绒柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cephalocleistocactus'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瘦蛇柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maritimocereus'''''|i}} Akers & Buining
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[披雪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seticleistocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄金柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Winterocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*120. '''[[栖凤球属]]''' {{Sm|(绯筒球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Denmoza'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*121. '''[[仙人球属]]''' {{Sm|(海胆球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Echinopsis'''''|i}} Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花冠球属]]''' {{Sm|(有刺萼属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acanthocalycium'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[橙饰球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acantholobivia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白檀柱属]]''' {{Sm|(白檀属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chamaecereus'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽檀球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Chamaelobivia'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龟甲球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cinnabarinea'''''|i}} Fric ex F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[巨丽球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cosmantha'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[王妃球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cylindrolobivia'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄绮球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Furiolobivia'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金闪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Helianthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白丽球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hymenorebutia'''''|i}} Fri&#269; ex Buining
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄鹰柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucostele'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丽花球属]]''' {{Sm|(丽花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lobivia'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丰丽球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mesechinopsis'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[桃轮球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neolobivia'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[芳春球属]]''' {{Sm|(假丽花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pseudolobivia'''''|i}} (Backeb.) Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑鳞球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Reicheocactus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄裳球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Salpingolobivia'''''|i}} Y. It&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇想球属]]''' {{Sm|(刺花海胆属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Setiechinopsis'''''|i}} (Backeb.) de Haas
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[逍遥球属]]''' {{Sm|(紫盛球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Soehrensia'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛花柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛仙球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Trichoechinopsis'''''|i}} Backeb.
*122. '''[[老乐柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Espostoa'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[幻乐柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudoespostoa'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[银衣柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thrixanthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*123. '''[[丽翁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(拟老乐柱属，白丽翁属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Espostoopsis'''''|i}} Buxb.
*124. '''[[金煌柱属]]''' {{Sm|(卧龙柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Haageocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花簪柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Loxanthocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秘鲁柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Peruvocereus'''''|i}} Akers
*125. '''[[苹果柱属]]''' {{Sm|(美形柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Harrisia'''''|i}} Britton
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[卧龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[皓龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Estevesia'''''|i}} P. J. Braun
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红龙柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roseocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*126. '''[[白仙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Matucana'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇仙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anhaloniopsis'''''|i}} (Buxb.) Mottram
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山仙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eomatucana'''''|i}} F. Ritter
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄仙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Submatucana'''''|i}} Backeb.
*127. '''[[小槌球属]]''' {{Sm|(小槌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mila'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*128. '''[[山翁柱属]]''' {{Sm|(刺翁柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oreocereus'''''|i}} (A. Berger) Riccob.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[醉翁柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arequipa'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圣云柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arequipiopsis'''''|i}} Kreuz. & Buining
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹤岭柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Morawetzia'''''|i}} Backeb.
*129. '''[[彩髯玉属]]''' {{Sm|(髯玉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Oroya'''''|i}} Britton & Rose
*130. '''[[纤巧柱属]]''' {{Sm|(巧柱属，稚儿柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pygmaeocereus'''''|i}} H. Johnson & Backeb.
*131. '''[[刺蛇柱属]]''' {{Sm|(龟甲柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rauhocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*132. '''[[善美柱属]]''' {{Sm|(棍棒花柱属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Samaipaticereus'''''|i}} Cárdenas
*133. '''[[金鬃柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vatricania'''''|i}} Backeb.
*134. '''[[金髯柱属]]''' {{Sm|(金髯龙属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Weberbauerocereus'''''|i}} Backeb.
*135. '''[[优雅柱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Yungasocereus'''''|i}} F. Ritter
==118. 山茱萸目　Cornales==
===452. [[蓝果树科]]　Nyssaceae Juss. ex Dumort.===
*1. '''[[马蹄参属]]'''　'''''Diplopanax''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*2. '''[[单室茱萸属]]'''　'''''Mastixia''''' Blume
*3. '''[[珙桐属]]'''　'''''Davidia''''' Baill.
*4. '''[[喜树属]]'''　'''''Camptotheca''''' Decne.
*5. '''[[蓝果树属]]''' {{Sm|(紫树属)}}　'''''Nyssa''''' Gronov. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华南蓝果树属]]'''　'''''Agathisanthes''''' Blume
===453. [[绣球科]]　Hydrangeaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[岩绣梅属]]''' {{Sm|(单型绣球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Jamesia'''''|i}} Torr. & A. Gray
*2. '''[[黄山梅属]]'''　'''''Kirengeshoma''''' Yatabe
*3. '''[[溲疏属]]'''　'''''Deutzia''''' Thunb.
*4. '''[[木银莲属]]''' {{Sm|(茶花常山属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Carpenteria'''''|i}} Torr.
*5. '''[[山梅花属]]'''　'''''Philadelphus''''' L.
*6. '''[[长柱绣球属]]'''　'''''Taronia''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*7. '''[[常山属]]'''　'''''Dichroa''''' Lour.
*8. '''[[绣球属]]'''　'''''Hortensia''''' Comm. ex Juss.
*9. '''[[光绣球属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hydrangea'''''|i}} L.
*10. '''[[蛛网萼属]]'''　'''''Platycrater''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*11. '''[[冠盖绣球属]]'''　'''''Calyptranthe''''' (Maxim.) Nakai
*12. '''[[攀绣球属]]'''　'''''Cornidia''''' Ruiz & Pav.
*13. '''[[草绣球属]]'''　'''''Cardiandra''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*14. '''[[叉叶蓝属]]''' {{Sm|(银梅草属)}}　'''''Deinanthe''''' Maxim.
*15. '''[[挂苦绣球属]]'''　'''''Heteromalla''''' (Rehder) H. Ohba & S. Akiyama
*16. '''[[冠盖藤属]]'''　'''''Pileostegia''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*17. '''[[赤壁木属]]''' {{Sm|(赤壁草属)}}　'''''Decumaria''''' L.
*18. '''[[钻地风属]]'''　'''''Schizophragma''''' Siebold & Zucc.
===454. [[刺莲花科]]　Loasaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[耀星花属]]''' {{Sm|(门泽草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mentzelia'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[黄巾藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scyphanthus'''''|i}} Sweet
===455. [[山茱萸科]]　Cornaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[八角枫属]]'''　'''''Alangium''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛八角枫属]]'''　'''''Diacicarpium''''' Blume
*2. '''[[黑皮楠属]]''' {{Sm|(阴荃属)}}　'''''Yinquania''''' Z. Y. Zhu
*3. '''[[灯台树属]]'''　'''''Bothrocaryum''''' (Koehne) Pojark.
*4. '''[[梾木属]]'''　'''''Swida''''' Opiz
*5. '''[[山茱萸属]]'''　'''''Cornus''''' L.
*6. '''[[草茱萸属]]'''　'''''Chamaepericlymenum''''' Hill
*7. '''[[狗木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Benthamidia'''''|i}} Spach
*8. '''[[四照花属]]'''　'''''Dendrobenthamia''''' Hutch.
==119. 杜鹃花目　Ericales==
===456. [[凤仙花科]]　Balsaminaceae A. Rich.===
*1. '''[[水角属]]'''　'''''Hydrocera''''' Blume ex Wight & Arn.
*2. '''[[凤仙花属]]'''　'''''Impatiens''''' L.
===457. [[蜜囊花科]]　Marcgraviaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[蜜囊花属]]''' {{Sm|(附生藤属，风鸟花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Marcgravia'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[蜜瓶花属]]''' {{Sm|(囊苞木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Norantea'''''|i}} Aubl.
===458. [[福桂树科]]　Fouquieriaceae DC.===
*1. '''[[福桂树属]]''' {{Sm|(刺树属，澳可第罗属，福桂花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Fouquieria'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簇生观峰玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bronnia'''''|i}} Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[观峰玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Idria'''''|i}} Kellogg
===459. [[花荵科]]　Polemoniaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[魔力花属]]''' {{Sm|(坎吐阿属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cantua'''''|i}} Juss. ex Lam.
*2. '''[[电灯花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cobaea'''''|i}} Cav.
*3. '''[[花荵属]]'''　'''''Polemonium''''' L.
*4. '''[[夕雪麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Linanthus'''''|i}} Benth.
*5. '''[[福禄考属]]''' {{Sm|(天蓝绣球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phlox'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[吉莉草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gilia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*7. '''[[山号草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Collomia'''''|i}} Nutt.
*8. '''[[针插草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Navarretia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*9. '''[[红杉花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ipomopsis'''''|i}} Michx.
===460. [[玉蕊科]]　Lecythidaceae A. Rich.===
*1. '''[[玉蕊属]]'''　'''''Barringtonia''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南玉蕊属]]'''　'''''Doxomma''''' Miers
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果玉蕊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Megadendron'''''|i}} Miers
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红花玉蕊属]]'''　'''''Stravadium''''' Juss.
*2. '''[[榴玉蕊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Careya'''''|i}} Roxb.
*3. '''[[莲玉蕊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gustavia'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[炮弹树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Couroupita'''''|i}} Aubl.
*5. '''[[猴钵树属]]''' {{Sm|(猴子罐属，正统玉蕊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lecythis'''''|i}} Loefl.
*6. '''[[巴西栗属]]''' {{Sm|(巴西果属，鲍鱼果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Bertholletia'''''|i}} Bonpl.
===461. [[肋果茶科]]　Sladeniaceae Airy Shaw===
*1. '''[[肋果茶属]]''' {{Sm|(毒药树属)}}　'''''Sladenia''''' Kurz
===462. [[五列木科]]　Pentaphylacaceae Engl.===
*1. '''[[五列木属]]'''　'''''Pentaphylax''''' Gardner & Champ.
*2. '''[[茶梨属]]'''　'''''Anneslea''''' Wall.
*3. '''[[厚皮香属]]'''　'''''Ternstroemia''''' Mutis ex L. f.
*4. '''[[红淡比属]]'''　'''''Cleyera''''' Thunb.
*5. '''[[杨桐属]]'''　'''''Adinandra''''' Jack
*6. '''[[猪血木属]]'''　'''''Euryodendron''''' Hung T. Chang
*7. '''[[柃属]]''' {{Sm|(柃木属)}}　'''''Eurya''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖叶柃属]]'''　'''''Geeria''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝齿柃属]]'''　'''''Pseudoeurya''''' Yamam.
===463. [[山榄科]]　Sapotaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[肉实树属]]'''　'''''Sarcosperma''''' Hook. f.
*2. '''[[梭子果属]]'''　'''''Eberhardtia''''' Lecomte
*3. '''[[久榄属]]'''　'''''Sideroxylon''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳香榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mastichodendron'''''|i}} (Engl.) H. J. Lam
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铁榄属]]'''　'''''Sinosideroxylon''''' (Engl.) Aubrév.
*4. '''[[胶木属]]'''　'''''Palaquium''''' Blanco
*5. '''[[藏榄属]]'''　'''''Diploknema''''' Pierre
*6. '''[[太平榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Burckella'''''|i}} Pierre
*7. '''[[紫荆木属]]'''　'''''Madhuca''''' Ham. ex J. F. Gmel.
*8. '''[[乳油木属]]''' {{Sm|(牛油果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Vitellaria'''''|i}} C. F. Gaertn.
*9. '''[[香榄属]]''' {{Sm|(猿喜果属，子弹木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mimusops'''''|i}} L.
*10. '''[[铁线子属]]'''　'''''Manilkara''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[人心果属]]'''　'''''Achras''''' L.
*11. '''[[刺榄属]]'''　'''''Xantolis''''' Raf.
*12. '''[[神秘果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Synsepalum'''''|i}} (A. DC.) Daniell
*13. '''[[金叶树属]]'''　'''''Donella''''' Pierre ex Baill.
*14. '''[[星苹果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chrysophyllum'''''|i}} L.
*15. '''[[蛋黄果属]]''' {{Sm|(果榄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lucuma'''''|i}} Molina
*16. '''[[桃榄属]]'''　'''''Pouteria''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄金果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guapeba'''''|i}} Gomes
*17. '''[[山榄属]]'''　'''''Planchonella''''' Pierre
===464. [[柿科]]　Ebenaceae Gürke===
*1. '''[[棠柿属]]''' {{Sm|(光果属，尖药属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Lissocarpa'''''|i}} Benth.
*2. '''[[海柿属]]''' {{Sm|(假乌木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Euclea'''''|i}} Murray ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东非海柿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kellaua'''''|i}} A. DC.
*3. '''[[水条柿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Royena'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[柿属]]''' {{Sm|(柿树属)}}　'''''Diospyros''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[倍蕊柿属]]'''　'''''Embryopteris''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[象牙树属]]'''　'''''Maba''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异色柿属]]'''　'''''Mabola''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美柿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Persimon'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小果柿属]]'''　'''''Rospidios''''' A. DC.
===465. [[报春花科]]　Primulaceae Batsch ex Borkh.===
*1. '''[[杜茎山属]]'''　'''''Maesa''''' Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[孟加拉杜茎山属]]'''　'''''Baeobotrys''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冷饭果属]]'''　'''''Dartus''''' Lour.
*2. '''[[水茴草属]]'''　'''''Samolus''''' L.
*3. '''[[钟萝桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jacquinia'''''|i}} L.
*4. '''[[绿萝桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deherainia'''''|i}} Decne.
*5. '''[[彩萝桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bonellia'''''|i}} Bertero ex Colla
*6. '''[[点地梅属]]'''　'''''Androsace''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽叶点地梅属]]'''　'''''Pomatosace''''' Maxim.
*7. '''[[流星报春属]]''' {{Sm|(流星花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dodecatheon'''''|i}} L.
*8. '''[[报春花属]]'''　'''''Primula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粉报春属]]'''　'''''Aleuritia''''' (Duby) Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏报春属]]'''　'''''Auganthus''''' Link
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳叶报春属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Auricula-ursi'''''|i}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金花粉报春属]]'''　'''''Cankrienia''''' de Vriese
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇南报春属]]'''　'''''Carolinella''''' Hemsl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[总苞报春属]]'''　'''''Evotrochis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[微报春属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kablikia'''''|i}} Opiz
*9. '''[[假报春属]]'''　'''''Cortusa''''' L.
*10. '''[[水堇属]]''' {{Sm|(雪花草属，雨伞草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hottonia'''''|i}} L.
*11. '''[[长果报春属]]'''　'''''Bryocarpum''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*12. '''[[独花报春属]]'''　'''''Omphalogramma''''' (Franch.) Franch.
*13. '''[[雪铃花属]]''' {{Sm|(圆币草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Soldanella'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[金钟报春属]]''' {{Sm|(金钟花属，疆报春属)}}　'''''Kaufmannia''''' Regel
*15. '''[[假婆婆纳属]]'''　'''''Stimpsonia''''' C. Wright ex A. Gray
*16. '''[[仙客来属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclamen'''''|i}} L.
*17. '''[[缘毛过路黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Steironema'''''|i}} Raf.
*18. '''[[七瓣莲属]]'''　'''''Trientalis''''' L.
*19. '''[[琉璃繁缕属]]'''　'''''Anagallis''''' L.
*20. '''[[香草属]]'''　'''''Idiophyton''''' (Hand.-Mazz.) Bing Liu & Su Liu
*21. '''[[圆叶过路黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nummularia'''''|i}} Hill
*22. '''[[黄连花属]]'''　'''''Lysimachia''''' L.
*23. '''[[球尾花属]]'''　'''''Naumburgia''''' Moench
*24. '''[[海乳草属]]'''　'''''Glaux''''' L.
*25. '''[[珍珠菜属]]'''　'''''Lubinia''''' Comm. ex Vent.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭叶珍珠菜属]]'''　'''''Apochoris''''' Duby
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[延叶珍珠菜属]]'''　'''''Cerium''''' Lour.
*26. '''[[过路黄属]]'''　'''''Qijunwuantha''''' Bing Liu & Su Liu
*27. '''[[假珍珠菜属]]'''　'''''Paralysimachia''''' F. Du, J. Wang & S. Y. Yang
*28. '''[[酸藤子属]]'''　'''''Embelia''''' Burm. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[离瓣酸藤子属]]'''　'''''Choripetalum''''' A. DC.
*29. '''[[铁仔属]]'''　'''''Myrsine''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光叶铁仔属]]'''　'''''Anamtia''''' Koidz.
*30. '''[[密花树属]]'''　'''''Rapanea''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[打铁树属]]'''　'''''Athruphyllum''''' Lour.
*31. '''[[蜡烛果属]]'''　'''''Aegiceras''''' Gaertn.
*32. '''[[紫金牛属]]'''　'''''Ardisia''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酸薹菜属]]'''　'''''Niara''''' Dennst. ex Kostel.
*33. '''[[聚药金牛属]]''' {{Sm|(聚药罗伞属)}}　'''''Hymenandra''''' (A. DC.) Spach
*34. '''[[管金牛属]]'''　'''''Sadiria''''' Mez
*35. '''[[锥药金牛属]]'''　'''''Amblyanthus''''' A. DC.
===466. [[山茶科]]　Theaceae Mirb.===
*1. '''[[紫茎属]]''' {{Sm|(旃檀属)}}　'''''Stewartia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[折柄茶属]]'''　'''''Hartia''''' Dunn
*2. '''[[洋木荷属]]''' {{Sm|(洋大头茶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Franklinia'''''|i}} W. Bartram ex Marshall
*3. '''[[木荷属]]'''　'''''Schima''''' Reinw. ex Blume
*4. '''[[核果茶属]]'''　'''''Pyrenaria''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多瓣核果茶属]]'''　'''''Parapyrenaria''''' Hung T. Chang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华核果茶属]]'''　'''''Sinopyrenaria''''' Hu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石笔木属]]'''　'''''Tutcheria''''' Dunn
*5. '''[[圆籽荷属]]'''　'''''Apterosperma''''' Hung T. Chang
*6. '''[[大头茶属]]'''　'''''Polyspora''''' Sweet ex G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四川大头茶属]]'''　'''''Carria''''' Gardner
*7. '''[[山茶属]]'''　'''''Camellia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛蕊茶属]]'''　'''''Camelliastrum''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇山茶属]]'''　'''''Desmitus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油茶属]]'''　'''''Drupifera''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛果猴子木属]]''' {{Sm|(雕果茶属)}}　'''''Glyptocarpa''''' Hu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茶梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sasanqua'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[实果茶属]]'''　'''''Stereocarpus''''' Hallier f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茶属]]'''　'''''Thea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[连蕊茶属]]'''　'''''Theopsis''''' (Cohen-Stuart) Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南茶属]]'''　'''''Yunnanea''''' Hu
===467. [[山矾科]]　Symplocaceae Desf.===
*1. '''[[革瓣山矾属]]'''　'''''Cordyloblaste''''' Hensch. ex Moritzi
*2. '''[[山矾属]]'''　'''''Symplocos''''' Jacq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南山矾属]]'''　'''''Dicalix''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珠仔树属]]'''　'''''Lodhra''''' Guillem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白檀属]]'''　'''''Palura''''' (G. Don) Miers
===468. [[岩梅科]]　Diapensiaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[岩穗属]]''' {{Sm|(银河草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Galax'''''|i}} Sims
*2. '''[[岩匙属]]''' {{Sm|(藏岩梅属，岩菠菜属)}}　'''''Berneuxia''''' Decne.
*3. '''[[岩镜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schizocodon'''''|i}} Siebold & Zucc.
*4. '''[[岩梅属]]'''　'''''Diapensia''''' L.
*5. '''[[岩扇属]]'''　'''''Shortia''''' Torr. & A. Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾岩扇属]]'''　'''''Shortiopsis''''' Hayata
===469. [[安息香科]]　Styracaceae DC. & Spreng.===
*1. '''[[山茉莉属]]'''　'''''Huodendron''''' Rehder
*2. '''[[安息香属]]''' {{Sm|(野茉莉属)}}　'''''Styrax''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲安息香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adnaria'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南安息香属]]'''　'''''Anthostyrax''''' Pierre
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野茉莉属]]'''　'''''Cyrta''''' Lour.
*3. '''[[歧序安息香属]]'''　'''''Bruinsmia''''' Boerl. & Koord.
*4. '''[[赤杨叶属]]''' {{Sm|(拟赤杨属)}}　'''''Alniphyllum''''' Matsum.
*5. '''[[北美银钟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Halesia'''''|i}} J. Ellis ex L.
*6. '''[[长果安息香属]]'''　'''''Changiostyrax''''' Tao Chen
*7. '''[[陀螺果属]]''' {{Sm|(鸭头梨属)}}　'''''Melliodendron''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*8. '''[[茉莉果属]]'''　'''''Parastyrax''''' W. W. Sm.
*9. '''[[银钟花属]]'''　'''''Perkinsiodendron''''' P. W. Fritsch
*10. '''[[木瓜红属]]'''　'''''Rehderodendron''''' Hu
*11. '''[[白辛树属]]'''　'''''Pterostyrax''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*12. '''[[秤锤树属]]'''　'''''Sinojackia''''' Hu
===470. [[瓶子草科]]　Sarraceniaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[眼镜蛇草属]]''' {{Sm|(眼镜蛇瓶子草属，达灵顿氏草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Darlingtonia'''''|i}} Torr.
*2. '''[[瓶子草属]]''' {{Sm|(管叶草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sarracenia'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[卷瓶子草属]]''' {{Sm|(太阳瓶子草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Heliamphora'''''|i}} Benth.
===471. [[捕虫木科]]　Roridulaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[捕虫木属]]''' {{Sm|(捕蝇幌属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Roridula'''''|i}} Burm. ex L.
===472. [[猕猴桃科]]　Actinidiaceae Gilg & Werderm.===
*1. '''[[水东哥属]]'''　'''''Saurauia''''' Willd.
*2. '''[[藤山柳属]]'''　'''''Clematoclethra''''' (Franch.) Maxim.
*3. '''[[猕猴桃属]]'''　'''''Actinidia''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狗枣猕猴桃属]]'''　'''''Kalomikta''''' Regel
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[枣猕猴桃属]]'''　'''''Trochostigma''''' Siebold & Zucc.
===473. [[桤叶树科]]　Clethraceae Klotzsch===
*1. '''[[桤叶树属]]''' {{Sm|(山柳属)}}　'''''Clethra''''' Gronov. ex L.
===474. [[鞣木科]]　Cyrillaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[鞣木属]]''' {{Sm|(翅萼木属，翅萼树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyrilla'''''|i}} Garden ex L.
===475. [[杜鹃花科]]　Ericaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[吊钟花属]]'''　'''''Enkianthus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灯笼树属]]'''　'''''Bodinieriella''''' H. Lév.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红灯吊钟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tritomodon'''''|i}} Turcz.
*2. '''[[单侧花属]]'''　'''''Orthilia''''' Raf.
*3. '''[[鹿蹄草属]]'''　'''''Pyrola''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短柱鹿蹄草属]]'''　'''''Braxilia''''' Raf.
*4. '''[[独丽花属]]'''　'''''Moneses''''' Salisb. ex Gray
*5. '''[[喜冬草属]]''' {{Sm|(梅笠草属)}}　'''''Chimaphila''''' Pursh
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞形喜冬草属]]'''　'''''Pipseva''''' Raf.
*6. '''[[草莓树属]]''' {{Sm|(荔莓属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arbutus'''''|i}} L.
*7. '''[[北极果属]]'''　'''''Arctous''''' (A. Gray) Nied.
*8. '''[[熊果属]]''' {{Sm|(熊葡萄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arctostaphylos'''''|i}} Adans.
*9. '''[[假沙晶兰属]]''' {{Sm|(假水晶兰属，拟水晶兰属)}}　'''''Monotropastrum''''' Andres
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙晶兰属]]'''　'''''Eremotropa''''' Andres
*10. '''[[水晶兰属]]'''　'''''Monotropa''''' L.
*11. '''[[松下兰属]]'''　'''''Hypopitys''''' Hill
*12. '''[[岩须属]]''' {{Sm|(锦绦花属)}}　'''''Cassiope''''' D. Don
*13. '''[[山月桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kalmia'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[松毛翠属]]'''　'''''Phyllodoce''''' Salisb.
*15. '''[[大宝石南属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Daboecia'''''|i}} D. Don
*16. '''[[帚石南属]]''' {{Sm|(佳萝属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Calluna'''''|i}} Salisb.
*17. '''[[欧石南属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erica'''''|i}} L.
*18. '''[[杉叶杜属]]''' {{Sm|(杉叶杜鹃属)}}　'''''Diplarche''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*19. '''[[岩高兰属]]'''　'''''Empetrum''''' L.
*20. '''[[云间杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Therorhodion''''' (Maxim.) Small
*21. '''[[杜鹃花属]]''' {{Sm|(杜鹃属)}}　'''''Rhododendron''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五蕊杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Anthodendron''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马银花属]]'''　'''''Azaleastrum''''' (Planch. ex Maxim.) Rydb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[映山杜鹃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''× Azaleodendron'''''|i}} Rodigas
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[常绿杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Hymenanthes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[皋月杜鹃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Iposues'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杜香属]]''' {{Sm|(喇叭茶属)}}　'''''Ledum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[璎珞杜鹃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Menziesia'''''|i}} Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小叶杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Osmothamnus''''' DC. ex Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[树形杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Stemotis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[巨魁杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Waldemaria''''' Klotzsch
*22. '''[[澳石南属]]''' {{Sm|(尖苞木属，冷地木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Epacris'''''|i}} Cav.
*23. '''[[酸木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oxydendrum'''''|i}} DC.
*24. '''[[珍珠花属]]''' {{Sm|(南烛属)}}　'''''Lyonia''''' Nutt.
*25. '''[[金叶子属]]''' {{Sm|(假木荷属)}}　'''''Craibiodendron''''' W. W. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[硬花金叶子属]]'''　'''''Nuihonia''''' Dop
*26. '''[[马醉木属]]'''　'''''Pieris''''' D. Don
*27. '''[[青姬木属]]''' {{Sm|(仙女越橘属)}}　'''''Andromeda''''' L.
*28. '''[[粉姬木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zenobia'''''|i}} D. Don
*29. '''[[木藜芦属]]'''　'''''Leucothoe''''' D. Don
*30. '''[[地桂属]]'''　'''''Chamaedaphne''''' Moench
*31. '''[[白珠属]]''' {{Sm|(白珠树属)}}　'''''Gaultheria''''' Kalm ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伏地杜属]]''' {{Sm|(伏地杜鹃属)}}　'''''Chiogenes''''' Salisb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南白珠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pernettya'''''|i}} Gaudich.
*32. '''[[越橘属]]'''　'''''Vaccinium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[缘毛乌饭属]]'''　'''''Ciliaccinium''''' Y. H. Tong, Su Liu & Bing Liu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乌饭树属]]'''　'''''Fangium''''' Y. H. Tong, Su Liu & Bing Liu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扁枝越橘属]]'''　'''''Hugeria''''' Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧越橘属]]'''　'''''Myrtillus''''' Gilib.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红莓苔子属]]'''　'''''Oxycoccus''''' Hill
*33. '''[[树萝卜属]]'''　'''''Agapetes''''' D. Don ex G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶乌饭属]]'''　'''''Epigynium''''' Klotzsch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五翅莓属]]'''　'''''Pentapterygium''''' Klotzsch
*34. '''[[佳露果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gaylussacia'''''|i}} Kunth
*35. '''[[蜂鸟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macleania'''''|i}} Hook.
===476. [[帽蕊草科]]　Mitrastemonaceae Makino===
*1. '''[[帽蕊草属]]''' {{Sm|(奴草属)}}　'''''Mitrastemon''''' Makino
==120. 茶茱萸目　Icacinales==
===477. [[茶茱萸科]]　Icacinaceae Miers===
*1. '''[[假柴龙树属]]'''　'''''Nothapodytes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马比木属]]'''　'''''Neoleretia''''' Baehni
*2. '''[[定心藤属]]'''　'''''Mappianthus''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*3. '''[[微花藤属]]'''　'''''Iodes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小果微花藤属]]'''　'''''Erythrostaphyle''''' Hance
*4. '''[[薄核藤属]]'''　'''''Natsiatum''''' Buch.-Ham. ex Arn.
*5. '''[[无须藤属]]'''　'''''Hosiea''''' Hemsl. & E. H. Wilson
*6. '''[[麻核藤属]]'''　'''''Natsiatopsis''''' Kurz
*7. '''[[刺核藤属]]'''　'''''Pyrenacantha''''' Hook. ex Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[锦葵叶刺核藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trematosperma'''''|i}} Urb.
==121. 水螅花目　Metteniusales==
===478. [[水螅花科]]　Metteniusaceae H. Karst. ex Schnizl.===
*1. '''[[肖榄属]]'''　'''''Platea''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[阔叶肖榄属]]'''　'''''Platystigma''''' R. Br.
*2. '''[[柴龙树属]]'''　'''''Apodytes''''' E. Mey. ex Arn.
*3. '''[[假海桐属]]'''　'''''Pittosporopsis''''' Craib
==122. 丝缨花目　Garryales==
===479. [[杜仲科]]　Eucommiaceae Engl.===
*1. '''[[杜仲属]]'''　'''''Eucommia''''' Oliv.
===480. [[丝缨花科]]　Garryaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[桃叶珊瑚属]]'''　'''''Aucuba''''' Thunb.
*2. '''[[丝缨花属]]''' {{Sm|(常绿四照花属，绞木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Garrya'''''|i}} Douglas ex Lindl.
==123. 龙胆目　Gentianales==
===481. [[茜草科]]　Rubiaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[滇丁香属]]'''　'''''Luculia''''' Sweet
*2. '''[[流苏子属]]'''　'''''Coptosapelta''''' Korth.
*3. '''[[尖药花属]]'''　'''''Acranthera''''' Arn. ex Meisn.
*4. '''[[岩黄树属]]'''　'''''Xanthophytum''''' Reinw. ex Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琼岛岩黄树属]]'''　'''''Paedicalyx''''' Pierre ex Pit.
*5. '''[[多轮草属]]'''　'''''Lerchea''''' L.
*6. '''[[蛇根草属]]'''　'''''Ophiorrhiza''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[棱萼茜属]]''' {{Sm|(玉兰草属)}}　'''''Hayataella''''' Masam.
*7. '''[[螺序草属]]'''　'''''Spiradiclis''''' Blume
*8. '''[[岩上珠属]]'''　'''''Clarkella''''' Hook. f.
*9. '''[[尖叶木属]]'''　'''''Urophyllum''''' Jack ex Wall.
*10. '''[[粗叶木属]]'''　'''''Lasianthus''''' Jack
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[斜脉粗叶木属]]'''　'''''Dasus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石核木属]]'''　'''''Litosanthes''''' Blume
*11. '''[[岛核木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saldinia'''''|i}} A. Rich. ex DC.
*12. '''[[长蛛檀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Faramea'''''|i}} Aubl.
*13. '''[[虎刺属]]'''　'''''Damnacanthus''''' C. F. Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岛虎刺属]]'''　'''''Tetraplasia''''' Rehder
*14. '''[[蔓虎刺属]]'''　'''''Mitchella''''' L.
*15. '''[[木巴戟属]]'''　'''''Morinda''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海滨木巴戟属]]'''　'''''Platanocephalus''''' Vaill. ex Crantz
*16. '''[[穴果木属]]'''　'''''Caelospermum''''' Blume
*17. '''[[巴戟天属]]'''　'''''Gynochthodes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊角藤属]]'''　'''''Guttenbergia''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
*18. '''[[南山花属]]''' {{Sm|(三角瓣花属)}}　'''''Prismatomeris''''' Thwaites
*19. '''[[头沛木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carapichea'''''|i}} Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[吐根属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ipecacuanha'''''|i}} Raf.
*20. '''[[弯管花属]]'''　'''''Chassalia''''' Comm. ex Poir.
*21. '''[[爱地草属]]'''　'''''Geophila''''' D. Don
*22. '''[[九节属]]'''　'''''Psychotria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[头九节属]]'''　'''''Cephaelis''''' Sw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蚁寨木属]]''' {{Sm|(蚁寨属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hydnophytum'''''|i}} Jack
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[貘九节属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mapouria'''''|i}} Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺蚁木属]]''' {{Sm|(蚁巢木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Myrmecodia'''''|i}} Jack
*23. '''[[繁星花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carphalea'''''|i}} Juss.
*24. '''[[红芽大戟属]]'''　'''''Knoxia''''' L.
*25. '''[[五星花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentas'''''|i}} Benth.
*26. '''[[小牙草属]]'''　'''''Dentella''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*27. '''[[毛瓣耳草属]]'''　'''''Hedyotis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[方茎耳草属]]'''　'''''Diplophragma''''' (Wight & Arn.) Meisn.
*28. '''[[合叶耳草属]]'''　'''''Involucrella''''' (Benth. & Hook. f.) Neupane & N. Wikstr.
*29. '''[[轮叶耳草属]]'''　'''''Debia''''' Neupane & N. Wikstr.
*30. '''[[网籽耳草属]]'''　'''''Leptopetalum''''' Hook. & Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果耳草属]]''' {{Sm|(翅果草属)}}　'''''Thecagonum''''' Babu
*31. '''[[蛇舌草属]]'''　'''''Scleromitrion''''' (Wight & Arn.) Meisn.
*32. '''[[耳草属]]'''　'''''Exallage''''' Bremek.
*33. '''[[藤耳草属]]'''　'''''Dimetia''''' Meisn.
*34. '''[[新耳草属]]'''　'''''Neanotis''''' W. H. Lewis
*35. '''[[微耳草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oldenlandiopsis'''''|v}} Terrell & W. H. Lewis
*36. '''[[美耳草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Houstonia'''''|i}} L.
*37. '''[[水线草属]]'''　'''''Oldenlandia''''' L.
*38. '''[[蔓炎花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Manettia'''''|i}} Mutis ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guagnebina'''''|i}} Vell.
*39. '''[[寒丁子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bouvardia'''''|i}} Salisb.
*40. '''[[双角草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diodia'''''|v}} L.
*41. '''[[盖裂果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mitracarpus'''''|v}} Zucc.
*42. '''[[号扣草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hexasepalum'''''|v}} Bartl. ex DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚扣草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diodella'''''|v}} Small
*43. '''[[丰花草属]]'''　'''''Borreria''''' G. Mey.
*44. '''[[纽扣草属]]'''　'''''Spermacoce''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[聚角草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hemidiodia'''''|v}} K. Schum.
*45. '''[[墨苜蓿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Richardia'''''|v}} L.
*46. '''[[薄柱草属]]'''　'''''Nertera''''' Banks & Sol. ex Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珍珠橙属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gomozia'''''|i}} Mutis ex L. f.
*47. '''[[臭叶木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coprosma'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*48. '''[[绣球茜属]]'''　'''''Dunnia''''' Tutcher
*49. '''[[宽昭木属]]'''　'''''Foonchewia''''' R. J. Wang
*50. '''[[报春茜属]]'''　'''''Leptomischus''''' Drake
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多管花属]]'''　'''''Indopolysolenia''''' Bennet
*51. '''[[牡丽草属]]'''　'''''Mouretia''''' Pit.
*52. '''[[腺萼木属]]'''　'''''Mycetia''''' Reinw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长叶腺萼木属]]'''　'''''Adenosacme''''' Wall. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密脉木属]]'''　'''''Myrioneuron''''' R. Br. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*53. '''[[石丁香属]]'''　'''''Neohymenopogon''''' Bennet
*54. '''[[雪花属]]'''　'''''Argostemma''''' Wall.
*55. '''[[染木树属]]'''　'''''Saprosma''''' Blume
*56. '''[[鸡屎藤属]]''' {{Sm|(鸡矢藤属)}}　'''''Paederia''''' L.
*57. '''[[香花木属]]''' {{Sm|(香叶木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Spermadictyon'''''|v}} Roxb.
*58. '''[[野丁香属]]'''　'''''Leptodermis''''' Wall.
*59. '''[[白马骨属]]'''　'''''Serissa''''' Comm. ex Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[六月雪属]]'''　'''''Dysoda''''' Lour.
*60. '''[[假盖果草属]]'''　'''''Pseudopyxis''''' Miq.
*61. '''[[假粗叶木属]]'''　'''''Paralasianthus''''' H. Zhu
*62. '''[[假繁缕属]]''' {{Sm|(假牛繁缕属)}}　'''''Theligonum''''' L.
*63. '''[[钩毛果属]]''' {{Sm|(钩毛草属)}}　'''''Kelloggia''''' Torr. ex Benth.
*64. '''[[茜草属]]'''　'''''Rubia''''' L.
*65. '''[[林猪殃殃属]]'''　'''''Pseudogalium''''' L. E Yang, Z. L. Nie & H. Sun
*66. '''[[拉拉藤属]]''' {{Sm|(猪殃殃属)}}　'''''Galium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶拉拉藤属]]'''　'''''Aparinanthus''''' Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香拉拉藤属]]'''　'''''Chlorostemma''''' (Lange) Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北方拉拉藤属]]'''　'''''Trichogalium''''' Fourr.
*67. '''[[田茜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sherardia'''''|v}} L.
*68. '''[[车叶草属]]'''　'''''Asperula''''' L.
*69. '''[[乐土草属]]''' {{Sm|(里普草属)}}　'''''Leptunis''''' Steven
*70. '''[[盾苞茜属]]'''　'''''Callipeltis''''' Steven
*71. '''[[长柱草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phuopsis'''''|i}} (Griseb.) Benth. & Hook. f.
*72. '''[[脬果茜草属]]''' {{Sm|(泡果茜草属)}}　'''''Microphysa''''' Schrenk
*73. '''[[金鸡纳属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cinchona'''''|i}} L.
*74. '''[[土连翘属]]'''　'''''Hymenodictyon''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛土连翘属]]'''　'''''Benteca''''' Adans.
*75. '''[[风箱树属]]'''　'''''Cephalanthus''''' L.
*76. '''[[帽蕊木属]]''' {{Sm|(帽柱木属)}}　'''''Mitragyna''''' Korth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异叶帽蕊木属]]'''　'''''Mamboga''''' Blanco
*77. '''[[鸡仔木属]]'''　'''''Sinoadina''''' Ridsdale
*78. '''[[心叶木属]]'''　'''''Haldina''''' Ridsdale
*79. '''[[水团花属]]'''　'''''Adina''''' Salisb.
*80. '''[[槽裂木属]]'''　'''''Pertusadina''''' Ridsdale
*81. '''[[黄棉木属]]'''　'''''Metadina''''' Bakh. f.
*82. '''[[新乌檀属]]'''　'''''Neonauclea''''' Merr.
*83. '''[[帽团花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Breonia'''''|i}} A. Rich.
*84. '''[[钩藤属]]'''　'''''Uncaria''''' Schreb.
*85. '''[[团花属]]'''　'''''Neolamarckia''''' Bosser
*86. '''[[乌檀属]]'''　'''''Nauclea''''' L.
*87. '''[[郎德木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rondeletia'''''|i}} L.
*88. '''[[绒香玫属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arachnothryx'''''|i}} Planch.
*89. '''[[毛茶属]]'''　'''''Antirhea''''' Comm. ex Juss.
*90. '''[[海茜树属]]''' {{Sm|(梯木属)}}　'''''Timonius''''' DC.
*91. '''[[海岸桐属]]'''　'''''Guettarda''''' L.
*92. '''[[长隔木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hamelia'''''|i}} Jacq.
*93. '''[[醉心茜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Osa'''''|i}} Aiello
*94. '''[[香果树属]]'''　'''''Emmenopterys''''' Oliv.
*95. '''[[双扇金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudomussaenda'''''|i}} Wernham
*96. '''[[玉叶金花属]]'''　'''''Mussaenda''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球管金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Menestoria'''''|i}} DC.
*97. '''[[裂果金花属]]'''　'''''Schizomussaenda''''' H. L. Li
*98. '''[[溪楠属]]'''　'''''Keenania''''' Hook. f.
*99. '''[[瓶花木属]]'''　'''''Scyphiphora''''' C. F. Gaertn.
*100. '''[[丁茜属]]'''　'''''Trailliaedoxa''''' W. W. Sm. & Forrest
*101. '''[[龙船花属]]'''　'''''Ixora''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒋英木属]]'''　'''''Tsiangia''''' But, H. H. Hsue & P. T. Li
*102. '''[[鱼骨木属]]'''　'''''Psydrax''''' Gaertn.
*103. '''[[猪肚木属]]'''　'''''Canthium''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[琼梅属]]'''　'''''Meyna''''' Roxb. ex Link
*104. '''[[绵琼梅属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rytigynia'''''|i}} Blume
*105. '''[[斑嘉果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vangueria'''''|i}} Juss.
*106. '''[[水锦树属]]'''　'''''Wendlandia''''' Bartl. ex DC.
*107. '''[[桂海木属]]'''　'''''Guihaiothamnus''''' H. S. Lo
*108. '''[[咖啡属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coffea'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长花咖啡属]]''' {{Sm|(光花咖啡属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Psilanthus'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*109. '''[[狗骨柴属]]'''　'''''Diplospora''''' DC.
*110. '''[[藏咖啡属]]'''　'''''Nostolachma''''' T. Durand
*111. '''[[咖啡巴戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hypobathrum'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[林巴戟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petunga'''''|i}} DC.
*112. '''[[垂雅木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pouchetia'''''|i}} A. Rich. ex DC.
*113. '''[[藏药木属]]'''　'''''Hyptianthera''''' Wight & Arn.
*114. '''[[大沙叶属]]'''　'''''Pavetta''''' L.
*115. '''[[乌口树属]]'''　'''''Tarenna''''' Gaertn.
*116. '''[[鼠石榴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alibertia'''''|i}} A. Rich. ex DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[元鼠榴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Borojoa'''''|i}} Cuatrec.
*117. '''[[木瓜榄属]]'''　'''''Ceriscoides''''' (Benth. & Hook. f.) Tirveng.
*118. '''[[靛榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Genipa'''''|i}} L.
*119. '''[[栀子属]]'''　'''''Gardenia''''' J. Ellis
*120. '''[[石榴茜属]]''' {{Sm|(非洲栀属，野栀子属)}}　'''''Rothmannia''''' Thunb.
*121. '''[[茜树属]]'''　'''''Aidia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[总状茜树属]]'''　'''''Stylocoryna''''' Cav.
*122. '''[[鸡爪簕属]]'''　'''''Benkara''''' Adans.
*123. '''[[浓子茉莉属]]'''　'''''Fagerlindia''''' Tirveng.
*124. '''[[钩簕茜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oxyceros'''''|i}} Lour.
*125. '''[[短萼齿木属]]'''　'''''Brachytome''''' Hook. f.
*126. '''[[红皮栀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dioecrescis'''''|i}} Tirveng.
*127. '''[[长柱山丹属]]'''　'''''Duperrea''''' Pierre ex Pit.
*128. '''[[越南茜属]]'''　'''''Rubovietnamia''''' Tirveng.
*129. '''[[绢冠茜属]]'''　'''''Porterandia''''' Ridl.
*130. '''[[岭罗麦属]]'''　'''''Tarennoidea''''' Tirveng. & Sastre
*131. '''[[山石榴属]]'''　'''''Catunaregam''''' Wolf
*132. '''[[须弥茜树属]]'''　'''''Himalrandia''''' T. Yamaz.
*133. '''[[大果茜属]]'''　'''''Fosbergia''''' Tirveng. & Sastre
*134. '''[[白香楠属]]'''　'''''Alleizettella''''' Pit.
*135. '''[[棠瑞草属]]'''　'''''Tangshuia''''' S. S. Ying
===482. [[龙胆科]]　Gentianaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[小黄管属]]'''　'''''Sebaea''''' Sol. ex R. Br.
*2. '''[[藻百年属]]'''　'''''Exacum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杯药草属]]''' {{Sm|(杯蕊属)}}　'''''Cotylanthera''''' Blume
*3. '''[[百金花属]]'''　'''''Centaurium''''' Hill
*4. '''[[绮龙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chironia'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[洋桔梗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eustoma'''''|i}} Salisb.
*6. '''[[罗星草属]]'''　'''''Canscora''''' Lam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铺地穿心草属]]'''　'''''Orthostemon''''' R. Br.
*7. '''[[穿心草属]]'''　'''''Phyllocyclus''''' Kurz
*8. '''[[星花莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anthocleista'''''|i}} Afzel. ex R. Br.
*9. '''[[香灰莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtophyllum'''''|i}} Reinw.
*10. '''[[灰莉属]]'''　'''''Fagraea''''' Thunb.
*11. '''[[钟瑶草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chelonanthus'''''|i}} (Griseb.) Gilg
*12. '''[[龙胆属]]'''　'''''Gentiana''''' Tourn. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆大花龙胆属]]'''　'''''Bilamista''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无茎龙胆属]]'''　'''''Ciminalis''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小龙胆属]]'''　'''''Chondrophylla''''' A. Nelson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳龙胆属]]'''　'''''Dasystephana''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾轮叶龙胆属]]'''　'''''Kudoa''''' Masam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秦艽属]]'''　'''''Tretorhiza''''' Adans.
*13. '''[[耳褶龙胆属]]'''　'''''Kuepferia''''' Adr. Favre
*14. '''[[狭蕊龙胆属]]'''　'''''Metagentiana''''' T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu
*15. '''[[蔓龙胆属]]'''　'''''Crawfurdia''''' Wall.
*16. '''[[华龙胆属]]'''　'''''Sinogentiana''''' Adr. Favre & Y. M. Yuan
*17. '''[[双蝴蝶属]]'''　'''''Tripterospermum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本双蝴蝶属]]'''　'''''Golowninia''''' Maxim.
*18. '''[[大钟花属]]'''　'''''Megacodon''''' (Hemsl.) Harry Sm.
*19. '''[[獐牙菜属]]'''　'''''Swertia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翼茎獐牙菜属]]'''　'''''Agathotes''''' D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏獐牙菜属]]''' {{Sm|(金冬花属)}}　'''''Kingdon-wardia''''' C. Marquand
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北方獐牙菜属]]'''　'''''Sczukinia''''' Turcz.
*20. '''[[翼萼蔓属]]'''　'''''Pterygocalyx''''' Maxim.
*21. '''[[扁蕾属]]'''　'''''Gentianopsis''''' Ma
*22. '''[[匙叶草属]]'''　'''''Latouchea''''' Franch.
*23. '''[[印度当药属]]'''　'''''Henricea''''' Lem.-Lis.
*24. '''[[辐花属]]'''　'''''Lomatogoniopsis''''' T. N. Ho & S. W. Liu
*25. '''[[肋柱花属]]'''　'''''Lomatogonium''''' A. Braun
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短药肋柱花属]]'''　'''''Pleurogynella''''' Ikonn.
*26. '''[[喉毛花属]]'''　'''''Comastoma''''' (Wettst.) Toyok.
*27. '''[[口药花属]]'''　'''''Jaeschkea''''' Kurz
*28. '''[[假龙胆属]]'''　'''''Gentianella''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮假龙胆属]]'''　'''''Aliopsis''''' Omer & Qaiser
*29. '''[[黄秦艽属]]''' {{Sm|(滇黄岑属)}}　'''''Veratrilla''''' Baill. ex Franch.
*30. '''[[花锚属]]'''　'''''Halenia''''' Borkh.
*31. '''[[腺鳞草属]]'''　'''''Anagallidium''''' Griseb.
*32. '''[[华獐牙菜属]]''' {{Sm|(异型株属)}}　'''''Sinoswertia''''' T. N. Ho, S. W. Liu & J. Q. Liu
===483. [[马钱科]]　Loganiaceae R. Br. ex Mart.===
*1. '''[[蓬莱葛属]]''' {{Sm|(蓬莱藤属)}}　'''''Gardneria''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狭叶蓬莱葛属]]'''　'''''Pseudogardneria''''' Racib.
*2. '''[[马钱属]]'''　'''''Strychnos''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[吕宋果属]]'''　'''''Ignatia''''' L. f.
*3. '''[[髯管花属]]'''　'''''Geniostoma''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*4. '''[[度量草属]]'''　'''''Mitreola''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶度量草属]]'''　'''''Parophiorrhiza''''' C. B. Clarke ex Hook. f.
*5. '''[[尖帽草属]]''' {{Sm|(姬苗属，尖帽花属)}}　'''''Mitrasacme''''' Labill.
===484. [[钩吻科]]　Gelsemiaceae Struwe & V. A. Albert===
*1. '''[[钩吻属]]''' {{Sm|(断肠草属，胡蔓藤属)}}　'''''Gelsemium''''' Juss.
===485. [[夹竹桃科]]　Apocynaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[盾籽木属]]''' {{Sm|(白坚木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aspidosperma'''''|i}} Mart. & Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大果盾籽木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cufodontia'''''|i}} Woodson
*2. '''[[鸡骨常山属]]'''　'''''Alstonia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羊角棉属]]'''　'''''Blaberopus''''' A. DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盆架树属]]'''　'''''Winchia''''' A. DC.
*3. '''[[蕊木属]]'''　'''''Kopsia''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红花蕊木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calpicarpum'''''|i}} G. Don
*4. '''[[蔓长春花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vinca'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[玫瑰树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ochrosia'''''|i}} Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[古城玫瑰树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bleekeria'''''|i}} Hassk.
*6. '''[[萝芙木属]]'''　'''''Rauvolfia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[苏门答腊萝芙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtosiphonia'''''|i}} Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[催吐萝芙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hylacium'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇根木属]]'''　'''''Ophioxylon''''' L.
*7. '''[[长春花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Catharanthus'''''|v}} G. Don
*8. '''[[奶子藤属]]'''　'''''Bousigonia''''' Pierre
*9. '''[[橙香藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saba'''''|i}} (Pichon) Pichon
*10. '''[[假金橘属]]'''　'''''Rejoua''''' Gaudich.
*11. '''[[夜灵木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tabernanthe'''''|i}} Baill.
*12. '''[[马铃果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Voacanga'''''|i}} Thouars
*13. '''[[狗牙花属]]''' {{Sm|(山辣椒属)}}　'''''Tabernaemontana''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆头花属]]'''　'''''Pagiantha''''' Markgr.
*14. '''[[山橙属]]'''　'''''Melodinus''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东方山橙属]]'''　'''''Clitandropsis''''' S. Moore
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[思茅山橙属]]'''　'''''Oncinus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贵州山橙属]]'''　'''''Trichostomanthemum''''' Domin
*15. '''[[仔榄树属]]'''　'''''Hunteria''''' Roxb.
*16. '''[[水甘草属]]'''　'''''Amsonia''''' Walter
*17. '''[[链珠藤属]]'''　'''''Alyxia''''' Banks ex R. Br.
*18. '''[[黄蝉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Allamanda'''''|i}} L.
*19. '''[[鸡蛋花属]]''' {{Sm|(缅栀子属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Plumeria'''''|v}} L.
*20. '''[[鸭蛋花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cameraria'''''|i}} L.
*21. '''[[海杧果属]]'''　'''''Cerbera''''' L.
*22. '''[[红果竹桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thevetia'''''|i}} L.
*23. '''[[黄花夹竹桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cascabela'''''|i}} Raf.
*24. '''[[长药花属]]''' {{Sm|(尖药木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Acokanthera'''''|i}} G. Don
*25. '''[[假虎刺属]]'''　'''''Carissa''''' L.
*26. '''[[倒吊笔属]]'''　'''''Wrightia''''' R. Br.
*27. '''[[夹竹桃属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nerium'''''|v}} L.
*28. '''[[沙漠玫瑰属]]''' {{Sm|(天宝花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Adenium'''''|i}} Roem. & Schult.
*29. '''[[羊角拗属]]'''　'''''Strophanthus''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旋花羊角拗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roupellia'''''|v}} Wall. & Hook. ex Benth.
*30. '''[[棒锤树属]]''' {{Sm|(瓶干树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pachypodium'''''|i}} Lindl.
*31. '''[[止泻木属]]'''　'''''Holarrhena''''' R. Br.
*32. '''[[倒缨木属]]'''　'''''Kibatalia''''' G. Don
*33. '''[[丝胶树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Funtumia'''''|i}} Stapf
*34. '''[[鳝藤属]]'''　'''''Anodendron''''' A. DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台湾鳝藤属]]'''　'''''Formosia''''' Pichon
*35. '''[[香花藤属]]'''　'''''Amphineurion''''' (A. DC.) Pichon
*36. '''[[毛药藤属]]'''　'''''Sindechites''''' Oliv.
*37. '''[[泥藤属]]''' {{Sm|(坭藤属，扭梗藤属)}}　'''''Streptoechites''''' D. J. Middleton & Livsh.
*38. '''[[富宁藤属]]'''　'''''Parepigynum''''' Tsiang & P. T. Li
*39. '''[[清明花属]]'''　'''''Beaumontia''''' Wall.
*40. '''[[纽子花属]]'''　'''''Vallaris''''' Burm. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无毛纽子花属]]'''　'''''Emericia''''' Roem. & Schult.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大纽子花属]]'''　'''''Parabeaumontia''''' (Baill.) Pichon
*41. '''[[金平藤属]]'''　'''''Cleghornia''''' Wight
*42. '''[[罗布麻属]]''' {{Sm|(茶叶花属，草夹竹桃属)}}　'''''Apocynum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白麻属]]'''　'''''Poacynum''''' Baill.
*43. '''[[长节珠属]]'''　'''''Parameria''''' Benth.
*44. '''[[水壶藤属]]'''　'''''Urceola''''' Roxb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[酸羹藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aganonerion'''''|i}} Pierre ex Spire
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乐东藤属]]'''　'''''Chunechites''''' Tsiang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花皮胶藤属]]'''　'''''Ecdysanthera''''' Hook. & Arn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杜仲藤属]]'''　'''''Parabarium''''' Pierre ex Spire & A. Spire
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华南水壶藤属]]'''　'''''Xylinabariopsis''''' Pit.
*45. '''[[鹿角藤属]]'''　'''''Chonemorpha''''' G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖子藤属]]'''　'''''Rhynchodia''''' Benth.
*46. '''[[络石属]]'''　'''''Trachelospermum''''' Lem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚洲络石属]]'''　'''''Parechites''''' Miq.
*47. '''[[小花藤属]]'''　'''''Micrechites''''' Miq.
*48. '''[[毛车藤属]]'''　'''''Amalocalyx''''' Pierre
*49. '''[[帘子藤属]]'''　'''''Pottsia''''' Hook. & Arn.
*50. '''[[短冠香花藤属]]'''　'''''Aganosma''''' (Blume) G. Don
*51. '''[[思茅藤属]]'''　'''''Epigynum''''' Wight
*52. '''[[腰骨藤属]]'''　'''''Ichnocarpus''''' R. Br.
*53. '''[[金香藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pentalinon'''''|i}} Voigt
*54. '''[[胶藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echites'''''|i}} P. Browne
*55. '''[[同心结属]]'''　'''''Parsonsia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[海南同心结属]]'''　'''''Helygia''''' Blume
*56. '''[[飘香藤属]]''' {{Sm|(文藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mandevilla'''''|i}} Lindl.
*57. '''[[紫背玉属]]''' {{Sm|(紫背萝藦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Petopentia'''''|i}} Bullock
*58. '''[[杠柳属]]'''　'''''Periploca''''' L.
*59. '''[[桉叶藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptostegia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*60. '''[[白叶藤属]]'''　'''''Cryptolepis''''' R. Br.
*61. '''[[]]'''　'''''Finlaysonia''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[须药藤属]]'''　'''''Stelmacrypton''''' Baill.
*62. '''[[马莲鞍属]]'''　'''''Streptocaulon''''' Wight & Arn.
*63. '''[[海岛藤属]]'''　'''''Gymnanthera''''' R. Br.
*64. '''[[冠馥藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stomatostemma'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*65. '''[[翅果藤属]]'''　'''''Myriopteron''''' Griff.
*66. '''[[白皮玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Raphionacme'''''|i}} Harv.
*67. '''[[弓果藤属]]'''　'''''Toxocarpus''''' Wight & Arn.
*68. '''[[鲫鱼藤属]]'''　'''''Secamone''''' R. Br.
*69. '''[[须花藤属]]'''　'''''Genianthus''''' Hook. f.
*70. '''[[勐腊藤属]]'''　'''''Goniostemma''''' Wight
*71. '''[[粮根藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cibirhiza'''''|i}} Bruyns
*72. '''[[水根藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fockea'''''|i}} Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多汁水根藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chymocormus'''''|i}} Harv.
*73. '''[[尖槐藤属]]'''　'''''Oxystelma''''' R. Br.
*74. '''[[牛角瓜属]]'''　'''''Calotropis''''' R. Br.
*75. '''[[马利筋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Asclepias'''''|v}} L.
*76. '''[[舌杯花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachycarpus'''''|i}} E. Mey.
*77. '''[[附线萝藦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stathmostelma'''''|i}} K. Schum.
*78. '''[[钉头果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gomphocarpus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*79. '''[[鹅绒藤属]]'''　'''''Cynanchum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳突果属]]'''　'''''Adelostemma''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华萝藦属]]'''　'''''Aphanostelma''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[青羊参属]]'''　'''''Cyathella''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长茎肉珊瑚属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Decanemopsis'''''|i}} Costantin & Gallaud
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天星藤属]]'''　'''''Graphistemma''''' (Champ. ex Benth.) Champ. ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铰剪藤属]]'''　'''''Holostemma''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[萝藦属]]'''　'''''Metaplexis''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花藤属]]'''　'''''Raphistemma''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地梢瓜属]]'''　'''''Rhodostegiella''''' (Pobed.) C. Y. Wu & D. Z. Li
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉珊瑚属]]'''　'''''Sarcostemma''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四川藤属]]'''　'''''Sichuania''''' M. G. Gilbert & P. T. Li
*80. '''[[白前属]]'''　'''''Vincetoxicum''''' Wolf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[箭药藤属]]'''　'''''Belostemma''''' Wall. ex Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秦岭藤属]]'''　'''''Biondia''''' Schltr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛皮消属]]'''　'''''Diploglossum''''' Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[驼峰藤属]]'''　'''''Merrillanthus''''' Chun & Tsiang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白水藤属]]'''　'''''Pentastelma''''' Tsiang & P. T. Li
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[徐长卿属]]'''　'''''Pycnostelma''''' Bunge ex Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[娃儿藤属]]'''　'''''Tylophora''''' R. Br.
*81. '''[[番萝藦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Matelea'''''|i}} Aubl.
*82. '''[[角荚藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gonolobus'''''|i}} Michx.
*83. '''[[尖瓣藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oxypetalum'''''|i}} R. Br.
*84. '''[[琉璃藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tweedia'''''|i}} Hook. & Arn.
*85. '''[[白蛾藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Araujia'''''|i}} Brot.
*86. '''[[纤冠藤属]]'''　'''''Gongronema''''' (Endl.) Decne.
*87. '''[[眼树莲属]]'''　'''''Dischidia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Collyris''''' Vahl
*88. '''[[球兰属]]'''　'''''Hoya''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜂出巢属]]'''　'''''Centrostemma''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[冠球兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eriostemma'''''|i}} (Schltr.) Kloppenb. & Gilding
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[扇叶藤属]]'''　'''''Micholitzia''''' N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂瓣球兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otostemma'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白铃球兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Physostelma'''''|i}} Wight
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绵毛球兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plocostemma'''''|i}} Blume
*89. '''[[夜来香属]]'''　'''''Telosma''''' Coville
*90. '''[[耳药藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stephanotis'''''|i}} Thouars
*91. '''[[南山藤属]]'''　'''''Dregea''''' E. Mey.
*92. '''[[牛奶菜属]]'''　'''''Marsdenia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂冠藤属]]'''　'''''Sinomarsdenia''''' P. T. Li & J. J. Chen
*93. '''[[马兰藤属]]'''　'''''Dischidanthus''''' Tsiang
*94. '''[[荟蔓藤属]]'''　'''''Cosmostigma''''' Wight
*95. '''[[匙羹藤属]]'''　'''''Gymnema''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大叶匙羹藤属]]'''　'''''Bidaria''''' (Endl.) Decne.
*96. '''[[黑鳗藤属]]'''　'''''Jasminanthes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茶药藤属]]''' {{Sm|(胡茶药属)}}　'''''Huthamnus''''' Tsiang
*97. '''[[金凤藤属]]'''　'''''Dolichopetalum''''' Tsiang
*98. '''[[折冠藤属]]'''　'''''Lygisma''''' Hook. f.
*99. '''[[醉魂藤属]]'''　'''''Heterostemma''''' Wight & Arn.
*100. '''[[石萝藦属]]'''　'''''Pentasachme''''' Wall. ex Wight
*101. '''[[吊灯花属]]'''　'''''Ceropegia''''' L.
*102. '''[[润肺草属]]'''　'''''Brachystelma''''' R. Br.
*103. '''[[伏牛角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Boucerosia'''''|i}} Wight & Arn.
*104. '''[[水牛角属]]''' {{Sm|(水牛掌属，龙角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Caralluma'''''|i}} R. Br.
*105. '''[[皱龙角属]]''' {{Sm|(裂皱角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhytidocaulon'''''|i}} P. R. O. Bally
*106. '''[[青龙角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echidnopsis'''''|i}} Hook. f.
*107. '''[[巨龙角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Edithcolea'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*108. '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monolluma'''''|i}} Plowes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sanguilluma'''''|i}} Plowes
*109. '''[[凝蹄玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudolithos'''''|i}} P. R. O. Bally
*110. '''[[球花角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Desmidorchis'''''|i}} Ehrenb.
*111. '''[[沙龙玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''White-sloanea'''''|i}} Chiov.
*112. '''[[钝牛角属]]''' {{Sm|(肖玉牛角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Duvaliandra'''''|i}} M. G. Gilbert
*113. '''[[六棱萝藦属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pectinaria'''''|i}} Haw.
*114. '''[[壶花角属]]''' {{Sm|(类国章属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stapeliopsis'''''|i}} Pillans
*115. '''[[伏龙角属]]''' {{Sm|(蛇茎萝藦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ophionella'''''|i}} Bruyns
*116. '''[[南蛮角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Quaqua'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*117. '''[[海葵角属]]''' {{Sm|(毛茸角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stapelianthus'''''|i}} Choux ex A. C. White & B. Sloane
*118. '''[[姬龙角属]]''' {{Sm|(南青龙角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Notechidnopsis'''''|i}} Lavranos & Bleck
*119. '''[[佛指玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lavrania'''''|i}} Plowes
*120. '''[[丽杯角属]]''' {{Sm|(丽杯花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Hoodia'''''|i}} Sweet ex Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[罗汉角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichocaulon'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*121. '''[[佛头玉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Larryleachia'''''|i}} Plowes
*122. '''[[宽杯角属]]''' {{Sm|(类犀角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Orbeanthus'''''|i}} L. C. Leach
*123. '''[[丽钟角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tavaresia'''''|i}} Welw. ex N. E. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Decabelone'''''|i}} Decne.
*124. '''[[豹皮花属]]''' {{Sm|(牛角属，姬牛角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Orbea'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Angolluma'''''|i}} R. Munster
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乌伞角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ballyanthus'''''|i}} Bruyns
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[类牛角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orbeopsis'''''|i}} L. C. Leach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚杯花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachycymbium'''''|i}} L. C. Leach
*125. '''[[姬笋角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Piaranthus'''''|i}} R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[剑笋角属]]''' {{Sm|(类剑龙角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Huerniopsis'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*126. '''[[玉牛角属]]''' {{Sm|(小花犀角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Duvalia'''''|i}} Haw.
*127. '''[[剑龙角属]]''' {{Sm|(星钟花属，龙王角属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Huernia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*128. '''[[盘龙角属]]''' {{Sm|(颤毛萝藦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tromotriche'''''|i}} Haw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Caruncularia'''''|i}} Haw.
*129. '''[[三齿角属]]''' {{Sm|(三齿萝藦属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Tridentea'''''|i}} Haw.
*130. '''[[钩龙角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Richtersveldia'''''|i}} Meve & Liede
*131. '''[[犀角属]]''' {{Sm|(国章属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stapelia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[角蕊犀角属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gonostemon'''''|i}} Haw.
==124. 紫草目　Boraginales==
===486. [[紫草科]]　Boraginaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[沙铃花属]]''' {{Sm|(钟穗花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Phacelia'''''|i}} Juss.
*2. '''[[喜林草属]]''' {{Sm|(粉蝶花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nemophila'''''|i}} Nutt.
*3. '''[[天芥菜属]]'''　'''''Heliotropium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[砂引草属]]'''　'''''Argusia''''' Boehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花天芥菜属]]'''　'''''Beruniella''''' Zakirov & Nabiev
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[夏天芥菜属]]'''　'''''Heliophytum''''' (Cham.) A. DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大尾摇属]]'''　'''''Tiaridium''''' Lehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫丹属]]'''　'''''Tournefortia''''' L.
*4. '''[[厚壳树属]]'''　'''''Ehretia''''' P. Browne
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[基及树属]]'''　'''''Carmona''''' Cav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮冠木属]]'''　'''''Rotula''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛萼厚壳树属]]'''　'''''Traxilum''''' Raf.
*5. '''[[双柱紫草属]]'''　'''''Coldenia''''' L.
*6. '''[[破布木属]]'''　'''''Cordia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛叶破布木属]]'''　'''''Myxa''''' (Endl.) Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙枝花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Salimori'''''|i}} Adans.
*7. '''[[肺草属]]'''　'''''Pulmonaria''''' L.
*8. '''[[假狼紫草属]]'''　'''''Nonea''''' Medik.
*9. '''[[蓝珠草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brunnera'''''|i}} Steven
*10. '''[[玻璃苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Borago'''''|v}} L.
*11. '''[[聚合草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Symphytum'''''|i}} L.
*12. '''[[腹脐草属]]'''　'''''Gastrocotyle''''' Bunge
*13. '''[[牛舌草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anchusa'''''|i}} L.
*14. '''[[狼紫草属]]'''　'''''Lycopsis''''' L.
*15. '''[[木紫草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lithodora'''''|i}} Griseb.
*16. '''[[蜜蜡花属]]''' {{Sm|(琉璃苣属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cerinthe'''''|i}} L.
*17. '''[[软紫草属]]''' {{Sm|(假紫草属)}}　'''''Arnebia''''' Forssk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[掸紫草属]]'''　'''''Macrotomia''''' DC. ex Meisn.
*18. '''[[弯果紫草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Moltkia'''''|i}} Lehm.
*19. '''[[蓝蓟属]]'''　'''''Echium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亮毛蓝蓟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Argyrexias'''''|i}} Raf.
*20. '''[[胀萼紫草属]]'''　'''''Maharanga''''' A. DC.
*21. '''[[滇紫草属]]''' {{Sm|(驴臭草属)}}　'''''Onosma''''' L.
*22. '''[[紫草属]]'''　'''''Lithospermum''''' L.
*23. '''[[桩果木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glandora'''''|i}} D. C. Thomas, Weigend & Hilger
*24. '''[[梓木草属]]'''　'''''Aegonychon''''' Gray
*25. '''[[田紫草属]]''' {{Sm|(拟紫草属)}}　'''''Buglossoides''''' Moench
*26. '''[[天山软紫草属]]'''　'''''Ulugbekia''''' Zakirov
*27. '''[[紫筒草属]]'''　'''''Stenosolenium''''' Turcz.
*28. '''[[毛束草属]]'''　'''''Trichodesma''''' R. Br.
*29. '''[[垫紫草属]]'''　'''''Chionocharis''''' I. M. Johnst.
*30. '''[[微果草属]]'''　'''''Microcaryum''''' I. M. Johnst.
*31. '''[[毛果草属]]'''　'''''Lasiocaryum''''' I. M. Johnst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花毛果草属]]'''　'''''Setulocarya''''' R. R. Mill & D. G. Long
*32. '''[[糙草属]]'''　'''''Asperugo''''' L.
*33. '''[[滨紫草属]]'''　'''''Mertensia''''' Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北方滨紫草属]]'''　'''''Winkleria''''' Rchb.
*34. '''[[脐果草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Omphalodes'''''|i}} Mill.
*35. '''[[异果鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Heterocaryum''''' A. DC.
*36. '''[[假异果鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Pseudoheterocaryum''''' Kaz. Osaloo & Saadati
*37. '''[[假鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Hackelia''''' Opiz
*38. '''[[短萼鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Pseudolappula''''' Khoshsokhan & Kaz. Osaloo
*39. '''[[鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Lappula''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Lepechiniella''''' Popov
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[石果鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Sclerocaryopsis''''' Brand
*40. '''[[孪果鹤虱属]]'''　'''''Rochelia''''' Rchb.
*41. '''[[齿缘草属]]'''　'''''Eritrichium''''' Schrad. ex Gaudin
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钝背草属]]'''　'''''Amblynotus''''' I. M. Johnst.
*42. '''[[颅果草属]]'''　'''''Craniospermum''''' Lehm.
*43. '''[[附地菜属]]'''　'''''Trigonotis''''' Steven
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏紫草属]]'''　'''''Pedinogyne''''' Brand
*44. '''[[十鳞草属]]'''　'''''Decalepidanthus''''' Riedl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假滨紫草属]]'''　'''''Pseudomertensia''''' Riedl
*45. '''[[勿忘草属]]'''　'''''Myosotis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[稀花勿忘草属]]'''　'''''Strophiostoma''''' Turcz.
*46. '''[[车前紫草属]]'''　'''''Sinojohnstonia''''' Hu
*47. '''[[山茄子属]]''' {{Sm|(短序花属)}}　'''''Brachybotrys''''' Maxim. ex Oliv.
*48. '''[[皿果草属]]'''　'''''Omphalotrigonotis''''' W. T. Wang
*49. '''[[锚刺果属]]'''　'''''Actinocarya''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[颈果草属]]'''　'''''Metaeritrichium''''' W. T. Wang
*50. '''[[微孔草属]]'''　'''''Microula''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂核草属]]'''　'''''Schistocaryum''''' Franch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花微孔草属]]'''　'''''Tretocarya''''' Maxim.
*51. '''[[猫瞳花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cryptantha'''''|i}} Lehm. ex G. Don
*52. '''[[斑种草属]]'''　'''''Bothriospermum''''' Bunge
*53. '''[[长蕊斑种草属]]'''　'''''Antiotrema''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*54. '''[[盾果草属]]'''　'''''Thyrocarpus''''' Hance
*55. '''[[长柱琉璃草属]]'''　'''''Lindelofia''''' Lehm.
*56. '''[[琉璃草属]]'''　'''''Cynoglossum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶琉璃草属]]'''　'''''Ailuroglossum''''' Sutory
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西南琉璃草属]]'''　'''''Paracynoglossum''''' Popov
*57. '''[[长蕊琉璃草属]]'''　'''''Solenanthus''''' Ledeb.
*58. '''[[翅果草属]]'''　'''''Rindera''''' Pall.
*59. '''[[盘果草属]]'''　'''''Mattiastrum''''' (Boiss.) Brand
==125. 茄目　Solanales==
===487. [[旋花科]]　Convolvulaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[飞蛾藤属]]'''　'''''Dinetus''''' Buch.-Ham. ex Sweet
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏飞蛾藤属]]'''　'''''Dinetopsis''''' Roberty
*2. '''[[三翅藤属]]'''　'''''Tridynamia''''' Gagnep.
*3. '''[[白花叶属]]'''　'''''Poranopsis''''' Roberty
*4. '''[[心萼藤属]]'''　'''''Cordisepalum''''' Verdc.
*5. '''[[丁公藤属]]'''　'''''Erycibe''''' Roxb.
*6. '''[[盾苞藤属]]''' {{Sm|(盾苞果属)}}　'''''Neuropeltis''''' Wall.
*7. '''[[小牵牛属]]'''　'''''Jacquemontia''''' Choisy
*8. '''[[马蹄金属]]'''　'''''Dichondra''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*9. '''[[土丁桂属]]'''　'''''Evolvulus''''' L.
*10. '''[[菟丝子属]]'''　'''''Cuscuta''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[啤酒花菟丝子属]]'''　'''''Aplostylis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大花菟丝子属]]'''　'''''Kadurias''''' Raf.
*11. '''[[旋花属]]'''　'''''Convolvulus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[打碗花属]]'''　'''''Calystegia''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三色旋花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Campanulopsis'''''|i}} (Roberty) Roberty
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肾叶打碗花属]]'''　'''''Latrienda''''' Raf.
*12. '''[[耳节藤属]]'''　'''''Camonea''''' Raf.
*13. '''[[盒果藤属]]'''　'''''Operculina''''' Silva Manso
*14. '''[[猪菜藤属]]'''　'''''Hewittia''''' Wight & Arn.
*15. '''[[地旋花属]]'''　'''''Xenostegia''''' D. F. Austin & Staples
*16. '''[[萼龙藤属]]'''　'''''Distimake''''' Raf.
*17. '''[[金钟藤属]]'''　'''''Decalobanthus''''' Ooststr.
*18. '''[[鱼黄草属]]'''　'''''Merremia''''' Dennst. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛山猪菜属]]'''　'''''Skinneria''''' Choisy
*19. '''[[鳞蕊藤属]]'''　'''''Lepistemon''''' Blume
*20. '''[[腺叶藤属]]'''　'''''Stictocardia''''' Hallier f.
*21. '''[[金龙薯属]]'''　'''''Isypus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羽叶薯属]]'''　'''''Dimerodiscus''''' Gagnep.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舟苞薯藤属]]'''　'''''Navipomoea''''' (Roberty) Roberty
*22. '''[[虎掌藤属]]'''　'''''Stomadena''''' Raf.
*23. '''[[银背藤属]]'''　'''''Argyreia''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美丽银背藤属]]'''　'''''Samudra''''' Raf.
*24. '''[[苞叶藤属]]'''　'''''Blinkworthia''''' Choisy
*25. '''[[星毛薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Astripomoea'''''|i}} A. Meeuse
*26. '''[[五爪金龙属]]'''　'''''Exocroa''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蕹菜属]]'''　'''''Fraxima''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管花薯属]]'''　'''''Tereietra''''' Raf.
*27. '''[[药牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ornithosperma'''''|i}} Raf.
*28. '''[[月光花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bonanox'''''|v}} Raf.
*29. '''[[牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pharbitis'''''|v}} Choisy
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂叶牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cleiemera'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[寄生牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parasitipomoea'''''|v}} Hayata
*30. '''[[茑萝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Quamoclit'''''|v}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶茑萝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Doxema'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金鱼花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mina'''''|i}} Cerv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[橙红茑萝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Neorthosis'''''|v}} Raf.
*31. '''[[番薯属]]'''　'''''Ipomoea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三裂叶薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amphione'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[七爪龙属]]'''　'''''Modesta''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚藤属]]'''　'''''Plesiagopus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛茎薯属]]'''　'''''Tirtalia''''' Raf.
*32. '''[[心萼薯属]]'''　'''''Exallosis''''' Raf.

===488. [[茄科]]　Solanaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[美人襟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Salpiglossis'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*2. '''[[蓝英花属]]''' {{Sm|(歪头花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Browallia'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[扭管花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Streptosolen'''''|i}} Miers
*4. '''[[垂管花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vestia'''''|i}} Willd.
*5. '''[[夜香树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cestrum'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瓶子花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Habrothamnus'''''|i}} Endl.
*6. '''[[蛾蝶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schizanthus'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*7. '''[[柏枝花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fabiana'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*8. '''[[舞春花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calibrachoa'''''|i}} Cerv.
*9. '''[[矮牵牛属]]''' {{Sm|(碧冬茄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Petunia'''''|i}} Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫花矮牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stimoryne'''''|i}} Raf.
*10. '''[[鸳鸯茉莉属]]''' {{Sm|(番茉莉属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brunfelsia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[半育鸳鸯茉莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brunfelsiopsis'''''|i}} Urb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单花鸳鸯茉莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Franciscea'''''|i}} Pohl
*11. '''[[赛亚麻属]]''' {{Sm|(高花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nierembergia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*12. '''[[烟草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nicotiana'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[光烟草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siphaulax'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花烟草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tabacum'''''|i}} Gilib.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶烟草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tabacus'''''|i}} Moench
*13. '''[[软木茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Duboisia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*14. '''[[假茄属]]''' {{Sm|(小钟花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nolana'''''|i}} L. ex L. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[堆假茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Periloba'''''|i}} Raf.
*15. '''[[枸杞属]]'''　'''''Lycium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宁夏枸杞属]]'''　'''''Teremis''''' Raf.
*16. '''[[颠茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Atropa'''''|i}} L.
*17. '''[[天蓬子属]]'''　'''''Atropanthe''''' Pascher
*18. '''[[山莨菪属]]'''　'''''Anisodus''''' Link ex Spreng.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铃铛子属]]'''　'''''Whitleya''''' Sweet
*19. '''[[天仙子属]]'''　'''''Hyoscyamus''''' L.
*20. '''[[马尿脬属]]''' {{Sm|(马尿泡属)}}　'''''Przewalskia''''' Maxim.
*21. '''[[脬囊草属]]''' {{Sm|(泡囊草属，华山参属)}}　'''''Physochlaina''''' G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[西藏脬囊草属]]'''　'''''Belenia''''' Decne.
*22. '''[[金杯藤属]]''' {{Sm|(金盏藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Solandra'''''|i}} Sw.
*23. '''[[棱瓶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Juanulloa'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*24. '''[[茄参属]]'''　'''''Mandragora''''' L.
*25. '''[[茄属]]'''　'''''Solanum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红果龙葵属]]'''　'''''Amatula''''' Medik.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花刺茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Androcera'''''|v}} Nutt.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马铃薯属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Battata'''''|i}} Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛龙葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bosleria'''''|v}} A. Nelson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[树番茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyphomandra'''''|i}} Mart. ex Sendtn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧白英属]]'''　'''''Dulcamara''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[番茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lycopersicon'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珊瑚樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudocapsicum'''''|i}} Medik.
*26. '''[[假酸浆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nicandra'''''|v}} Adans.
*27. '''[[木曼陀罗属]]''' {{Sm|(木本曼陀罗属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brugmansia'''''|v}} Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄花木曼陀罗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Methysticodendron'''''|i}} R. E. Schult.
*28. '''[[曼陀罗属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Datura'''''|v}} L.
*29. '''[[红丝线属]]'''　'''''Lycianthes''''' (Dunal) Hassl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单花红丝线属]]'''　'''''Numaeacampa''''' Gagnep.
*30. '''[[辣椒属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Capsicum'''''|v}} L.
*31. '''[[睡茄属]]'''　'''''Withania''''' Pauquy
*32. '''[[地海椒属]]'''　'''''Archiphysalis''''' Kuang
*33. '''[[龙珠属]]'''　'''''Tubocapsicum''''' (Wettst.) Makino
*34. '''[[山轮茄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Larnax'''''|i}} Miers
*35. '''[[紫铃花属]]''' {{Sm|(悬铃果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Iochroma'''''|i}} Benth.
*36. '''[[散血丹属]]'''　'''''Physaliastrum''''' Makino
*37. '''[[酸浆属]]'''　'''''Alkekengi''''' Mill.
*38. '''[[灯笼果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Physalis'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛酸浆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Herschelia'''''|v}} T. E. Bowdich
===489. [[楔瓣花科]]　Sphenocleaceae T. Baskerv.===
*1. '''[[楔瓣花属]]''' {{Sm|(尖瓣花属)}}　'''''Sphenoclea''''' Gaertn.
===490. [[田基麻科]]　Hydroleaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[田基麻属]]'''　'''''Hydrolea''''' L.
==126. 唇形目　Lamiales==
===491. [[香茜科]]　Carlemanniaceae Airy Shaw===
*1. '''[[蜘蛛花属]]'''　'''''Silvianthus''''' Hook. f.
*2. '''[[香茜属]]''' {{Sm|(四角果属)}}　'''''Carlemannia''''' Benth.
===492. [[木樨科]]　Oleaceae Hoffmanns. & Link===
*1. '''[[胶核木属]]'''　'''''Myxopyrum''''' Blume
*2. '''[[夜花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nyctanthes'''''|i}} L.
*3. '''[[雪柳属]]'''　'''''Fontanesia''''' Labill.
*4. '''[[翅果连翘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Abeliophyllum'''''|i}} Nakai
*5. '''[[连翘属]]'''　'''''Forsythia''''' Vahl
*6. '''[[探春花属]]'''　'''''Chrysojasminum''''' Banfi
*7. '''[[素馨属]]'''　'''''Jasminum''''' L.
*8. '''[[丁香属]]'''　'''''Syringa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[暴马丁香属]]'''　'''''Ligustrina''''' Rupr.
*9. '''[[女贞属]]'''　'''''Ligustrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本女贞属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ligustridium'''''|i}} Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂果女贞属]]''' {{Sm|(拟丁香属)}}　'''''Parasyringa''''' W. W. Sm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蜡子树属]]'''　'''''Phlyarodoxa''''' S. Moore
*10. '''[[梣属]]'''　'''''Fraxinus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美国白梣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calycomelia'''''|i}} Kostel.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[花梣属]]'''　'''''Ornus''''' Boehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黑梣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fraxinoides'''''|i}} Medik.
*11. '''[[木樨榄属]]''' {{Sm|(木犀榄属)}}　'''''Olea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滨木樨榄属]]'''　'''''Tetrapilus''''' Lour.
*12. '''[[北美流苏树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chionanthus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[美洲木樨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cartrema'''''|i}} Raf.
*13. '''[[万钧木属]]'''　'''''Chengiodendron''''' C. B. Shang, X. R. Wang, Yi F. Duan & Yong F. Li
*14. '''[[流苏树属]]'''　'''''Liusua''''' Bing Liu
*15. '''[[白茶榄属]]'''　'''''Picricarya''''' Dennst. ex Bo Li, Su Liu & Bing Liu
*16. '''[[木樨属]]''' {{Sm|(木犀属)}}　'''''Osmanthus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[管花木樨属]]'''　'''''Siphonosmanthus''''' Stapf
*17. '''[[李榄属]]'''　'''''Linociera''''' Sw. ex Schreb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圭亚那李榄属]]'''　'''''Mayepea''''' Aubl.
*18. '''[[总序桂属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phillyrea'''''|i}} L.
*19. '''[[冠花榄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Noronhia'''''|i}} Stadman ex Thouars
===493. [[荷包花科]]　Calceolariaceae Olmstead===
*1. '''[[荷包花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calceolaria'''''|i}} L.
===494. [[苦苣苔科]]　Gesneriaceae Rich. & Juss.===
*1. '''[[台闽苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(台黄草属)}}　'''''Titanotrichum''''' Soler.
*2. '''[[盔瓣岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(智利苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Asteranthera'''''|i}} Klotzsch & Hanst.
*3. '''[[蔓岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(红钟苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mitraria'''''|i}} Cav.
*4. '''[[长蕊岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(吊钟苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sarmienta'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*5. '''[[岛岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gesneria'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[长筒花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Achimenes'''''|i}} Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[墨西哥长筒花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scheeria'''''|i}} Seem.
*7. '''[[绵毛岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝钟苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eucodonia'''''|i}} Hanst.
*8. '''[[绒桐草属]]''' {{Sm|(垂筒苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Smithiantha'''''|i}} Kuntze
*9. '''[[小岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(苦乐花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Gloxinia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*10. '''[[毛唇岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Seemannia'''''|i}} Regel
*11. '''[[艳斑岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(花脸苣苔属，红雾花属，艳斑苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kohleria'''''|i}} Regel
*12. '''[[佛肚岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pearcea'''''|i}} Regel
*13. '''[[金红岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(金红花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chrysothemis'''''|i}} Decne.
*14. '''[[紫凤草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nautilocalyx'''''|i}} Linden ex Hanst.
*15. '''[[蚁巢岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(玉唇花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Codonanthe'''''|i}} (Mart.) Hanst.
*16. '''[[袋鼠花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nematanthus'''''|i}} Schrad.
*17. '''[[喜荫花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Episcia'''''|i}} Mart.
*18. '''[[齿瓣岩桐属]]''' {{Sm|(娥索花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Alsobia'''''|i}} Hanst.
*19. '''[[晶果岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Corytoplectus'''''|i}} Oerst.
*20. '''[[鲸鱼花属]]''' {{Sm|(金鱼花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Columnea'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[血鲸花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vireya'''''|i}} Raf.
*21. '''[[兜唇岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alloplectus'''''|i}} Mart.
*22. '''[[红帽岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Megapleilis'''''|i}} Raf.
*23. '''[[大岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sinningia'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白香岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dolichodeira'''''|i}} Hanst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红润岩桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rechsteineria'''''|i}} Regel
*24. '''[[尖舌苣苔属]]'''　'''''Rhynchoglossum''''' Blume
*25. '''[[异叶苣苔属]]'''　'''''Whytockia''''' W. W. Sm.
*26. '''[[十字苣苔属]]'''　'''''Stauranthera''''' Benth.
*27. '''[[圆果苣苔属]]'''　'''''Gyrogyne''''' W. T. Wang
*28. '''[[盾座苣苔属]]'''　'''''Epithema''''' Blume
*29. '''[[珊瑚苣苔属]]'''　'''''Corallodiscus''''' Batalin
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小石花属]]'''　'''''Ceratodiscus''''' Batalin
*30. '''[[短筒苣苔属]]'''　'''''Boeica''''' T. Anderson ex C. B. Clarke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翼柱苣苔属]]'''　'''''Boeicopsis''''' H. W. Li
*31. '''[[细蒴苣苔属]]'''　'''''Leptoboea''''' Benth.
*32. '''[[堇叶苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(叶花苣苔属)}}　'''''Platystemma''''' Wall.
*33. '''[[线柱苣苔属]]'''　'''''Rhynchotechum''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[椭圆线柱苣苔属]]'''　'''''Corysanthera''''' Wall. ex Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[互生苣苔属]]'''　'''''Isanthera''''' Nees
*34. '''[[横蒴苣苔属]]'''　'''''Beccarinda''''' Kuntze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[饰岩苣苔属]]'''　'''''Petrodoxa''''' J. Anthony
*35. '''[[欧洲苣苔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ramonda'''''|i}} Rich.
*36. '''[[凹柱苣苔属]]'''　'''''Litostigma''''' Y. G. Wei, F. Wen & Mich. M&ouml;ller
*37. '''[[海角苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(好望角苣苔属，海角樱草属，堇兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Streptocarpus'''''|i}} Lindl.
*38. '''[[非洲堇属]]''' {{Sm|(非洲紫罗兰属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Saintpaulia'''''|i}} H. Wendl.
*39. '''[[旋蒴苣苔属]]'''　'''''Dorcoceras''''' Bunge
*40. '''[[套唇苣苔属]]'''　'''''Damrongia''''' Kerr ex Craib
*41. '''[[粉毛苣苔属]]'''　'''''Middletonia''''' C. Puglisi
*42. '''[[蛛毛苣苔属]]'''　'''''Paraboea''''' (C. B. Clarke) Ridl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密叶苣苔属]]'''　'''''Buxiphyllum''''' W. T. Wang & C. Z. Gao
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽萼苣苔属]]'''　'''''Chlamydoboea''''' Stapf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[唇萼苣苔属]]'''　'''''Trisepalum''''' C. B. Clarke
*43. '''[[喜鹊苣苔属]]'''　'''''Ornithoboea''''' Parish ex C. B. Clarke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异药苣苔属]]'''　'''''Brachiostemon''''' Hand.-Mazz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华南苣苔属]]'''　'''''Sinoboea''''' Chun
*44. '''[[长冠苣苔属]]'''　'''''Rhabdothamnopsis''''' Hemsl.
*45. '''[[钩序苣苔属]]'''　'''''Microchirita''''' (C. B. Clarke) Yin Z. Wang
*46. '''[[汉克苣苔属]]'''　'''''Henckelia''''' Spreng.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长圆叶汉克苣苔属]]'''　'''''Babactes''''' DC. ex Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹿角苣苔属]]'''　'''''Ceratoscyphus''''' Chun
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麻叶汉克苣苔属]]'''　'''''Chirita''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密序苣苔属]]'''　'''''Hemiboeopsis''''' W. T. Wang
*47. '''[[芒毛苣苔属]]'''　'''''Aeschynanthus''''' Jack
*48. '''[[马铃苣苔属]]'''　'''''Oreocharis''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[直瓣苣苔属]]'''　'''''Ancylostemon''''' Craib
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四数苣苔属]]'''　'''''Bournea''''' Oliv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佛肚苣苔属]]'''　'''''Briggsia''''' Craib
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛药苣苔属]]'''　'''''Dasydesmus''''' Craib
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[瑶山苣苔属]]'''　'''''Dayaoshania''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全唇苣苔属]]'''　'''''Deinocheilos''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金盏苣苔属]]'''　'''''Isometrum''''' Craib
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[后蕊苣苔属]]'''　'''''Opithandra''''' B. L. Burtt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[弥勒苣苔属]]'''　'''''Paraisometrum''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[环花苣苔属]]'''　'''''Perantha''''' Craib
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂檐苣苔属]]'''　'''''Schistolobos''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[辐花苣苔属]]'''　'''''Thamnocharis''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短檐苣苔属]]'''　'''''Tremacron''''' Craib
*49. '''[[红仙苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(饰花苣苔属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Agalmyla'''''|i}} Blume
*50. '''[[盾叶苣苔属]]'''　'''''Metapetrocosmea''''' W. T. Wang
*51. '''[[苦苣苔属]]'''　'''''Conandron''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*52. '''[[浆果苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(曲蕊花属)}}　'''''Cyrtandra''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*53. '''[[双片苣苔属]]'''　'''''Didymostigma''''' W. T. Wang
*54. '''[[扁蒴苣苔属]]'''　'''''Cathayanthe''''' Chun
*55. '''[[孪苞苣苔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Liebigia'''''|i}} Endl.
*56. '''[[长蒴苣苔属]]'''　'''''Didymocarpus''''' Wall.
*57. '''[[圆唇苣苔属]]'''　'''''Gyrocheilos''''' W. T. Wang
*58. '''[[异唇苣苔属]]'''　'''''Allocheilos''''' W. T. Wang
*59. '''[[石山苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(石钟花属)}}　'''''Petrocodon''''' Hance
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[朱红苣苔属]]'''　'''''Calcareoboea''''' C. Y. Wu ex H. W. Li
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长檐苣苔属]]'''　'''''Dolicholoma''''' D. Fang & W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细筒苣苔属]]'''　'''''Lagarosolen''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[方鼎苣苔属]]'''　'''''Paralagarosolen''''' Y. G. Wei
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[世纬苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(黔苣苔属)}}　'''''Tengia''''' Chun
*60. '''[[报春苣苔属]]'''　'''''Primulina''''' Hance
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花苣苔属]]'''　'''''Chiritopsis''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[舌唇苣苔属]]'''　'''''Deltocheilos''''' W. T. Wang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[文采苣苔属]]'''　'''''Wentsaiboea''''' D. Fang & D. H. Qin
*61. '''[[漏斗苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(细蒴苣苔属)}}　'''''Raphiocarpus''''' Chun
*62. '''[[筒花苣苔属]]'''　'''''Briggsiopsis''''' K. Y. Pan
*63. '''[[光叶苣苔属]]'''　'''''Glabrella''''' Mich. M&ouml;ller & W. H. Chen
*64. '''[[半蒴苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(降龙草属)}}　'''''Hemiboea''''' C. B. Clarke
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[单座苣苔属]]'''　'''''Metabriggsia''''' W. T. Wang
*65. '''[[大苞苣苔属]]'''　'''''Anna''''' Pellegr.
*66. '''[[吊石苣苔属]]'''　'''''Lysionotus''''' D. Don
*67. '''[[斜柱苣苔属]]''' {{Sm|(紫花苣苔属)}}　'''''Loxostigma''''' C. B. Clarke
*68. '''[[异裂苣苔属]]'''　'''''Pseudochirita''''' W. T. Wang
*69. '''[[异片苣苔属]]'''　'''''Allostigma''''' W. T. Wang
*70. '''[[石蝴蝶属]]'''　'''''Petrocosmea''''' Oliv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滇黔石蝴蝶属]]'''　'''''Vaniotia''''' H. Lév.
*71. '''[[奇柱苣苔属]]'''　'''''Deinostigma''''' W. T. Wang & Z. Yu Li
===495. [[车前科]]　Plantaginaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[香彩雀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Angelonia'''''|i}} Bonpl.
*2. '''[[伏胁花属]]''' {{Sm|(过长沙舅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mecardonia'''''|v}} Ruiz & Pav.
*3. '''[[假马齿苋属]]'''　'''''Bacopa''''' Aubl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水盘草属]]'''　'''''Herpestis''''' C. F. Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水玄参属]]'''　'''''Hydranthelium''''' Kunth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麦花草属]]'''　'''''Mella''''' Vand.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩虹假马齿苋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monocardia'''''|i}} Pennell
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[田玄参属]]'''　'''''Sinobacopa''''' D. Y. Hong
*4. '''[[野甘草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Scoparia'''''|v}} L.
*5. '''[[离药草属]]''' {{Sm|(孪生花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Stemodia'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶离药草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Poarium'''''|v}} Desv. ex Ham.
*6. '''[[白籽草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucospora'''''|v}} Nutt.
*7. '''[[蓝金花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Otacanthus'''''|i}} Lindl.
*8. '''[[水八角属]]'''　'''''Gratiola''''' L.
*9. '''[[毛麝香属]]'''　'''''Adenosma''''' R. Br.
*10. '''[[茶菱属]]'''　'''''Trapella''''' Oliv.
*11. '''[[石龙尾属]]'''　'''''Limnophila''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫苏草属]]'''　'''''Ambuli''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[抱茎石龙尾属]]'''　'''''Cybbanthera''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中华石龙尾属]]'''　'''''Diceros''''' Lour.
*12. '''[[虻眼属]]'''　'''''Dopatrium''''' Buch.-Ham. ex Benth.
*13. '''[[水松尾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hydrotriche'''''|i}} Zucc.
*14. '''[[泽番椒属]]''' {{Sm|(泽蕃椒属)}}　'''''Deinostema''''' T. Yamaz.
*15. '''[[爆仗竹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Russelia'''''|i}} Jacq.
*16. '''[[锦龙花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Collinsia'''''|i}} Nutt.
*17. '''[[钓钟柳属]]''' {{Sm|(五蕊花属，钟铃花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Penstemon'''''|i}} Schmidel
*18. '''[[鳌头花属]]''' {{Sm|(龟头花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chelone'''''|i}} L.
*19. '''[[蔓金鱼草属]]''' {{Sm|(腋花金鱼草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Asarina'''''|i}} Mill.
*20. '''[[蔓柳穿鱼属]]''' {{Sm|(假金鱼草属，铙钹花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cymbalaria'''''|i}} Hill
*21. '''[[红衣藤属]]''' {{Sm|(缠柄花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Rhodochiton'''''|i}} Zucc. ex Otto & A. Dietr.
*22. '''[[蔓桐花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Maurandya'''''|i}} Ortega
*23. '''[[冠子藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lophospermum'''''|i}} D. Don ex R. Taylor
*24. '''[[毛彩雀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chaenorhinum'''''|i}} (DC.) Rchb.
*25. '''[[柳穿鱼属]]'''　'''''Linaria''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细柳穿鱼属]]''' {{Sm|(柳蓝花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Nuttallanthus'''''|v}} D. A. Sutton
*26. '''[[金鱼草属]]''' {{Sm|(龙头花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Antirrhinum'''''|i}} L.
*27. '''[[牛鼻草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Misopates'''''|i}} Raf.
*28. '''[[幌菊属]]'''　'''''Ellisiophyllum''''' Maxim.
*29. '''[[杉叶藻属]]'''　'''''Hippuris''''' L.
*30. '''[[水马齿属]]'''　'''''Callitriche''''' L.
*31. '''[[地团花属]]''' {{Sm|(球花草属，肾药花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Globularia'''''|i}} L.
*32. '''[[鞭打绣球属]]'''　'''''Hemiphragma''''' Wall.
*33. '''[[毛地黄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Digitalis'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木地黄属]]''' {{Sm|(等裂毛地黄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Isoplexis'''''|i}} (Lindl.) Benth.
*34. '''[[兔耳草属]]'''　'''''Lagotis''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短穗兔耳草属]]'''　'''''Kokonoria''''' Keng & Keng f.
*35. '''[[细穗玄参属]]'''　'''''Scrofella''''' Maxim.
*36. '''[[腹水草属]]'''　'''''Veronicastrum''''' Heist. ex Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四方麻属]]'''　'''''Calorhabdos''''' Benth.
*37. '''[[胡黄连属]]'''　'''''Neopicrorhiza''''' D. Y. Hong
*38. '''[[婆婆纳属]]'''　'''''Veronica''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂叶婆婆纳属]]'''　'''''Agerella''''' Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水苦荬属]]'''　'''''Becabunga''''' Hill
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旋子草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cochlidiosperma'''''|v}} (Rchb. f.) Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长阶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hebe'''''|i}} Comm. ex Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳叶长阶花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Panoxis'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兔尾苗属]]''' {{Sm|(穗花属，水萝卜属)}}　'''''Pseudolysimachion''''' (W. D. J. Koch) Opiz
*39. '''[[车前属]]''' {{Sm|(车前草属)}}　'''''Plantago''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[对叶车前属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Psyllium'''''|v}} Mill.
===496. [[玄参科]]　Scrophulariaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[双距花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diascia'''''|i}} Link & Otto
*2. '''[[龙面花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nemesia'''''|i}} Vent.
*3. '''[[假面花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Alonsoa'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*4. '''[[玉芙蓉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucophyllum'''''|i}} Bonpl.
*5. '''[[喜沙木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eremophila'''''|i}} R. Br.
*6. '''[[假瑞香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bontia'''''|i}} L.
*7. '''[[海茵芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Myoporum'''''|i}} Sol. ex G. Forst.
*8. '''[[苦槛蓝属]]'''　'''''Pentacoelium''''' Siebold & Zucc.
*9. '''[[醉鱼草属]]'''　'''''Buddleja''''' L.
*10. '''[[浆果醉鱼草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nicodemia'''''|i}} Ten.
*11. '''[[避日花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phygelius'''''|i}} E. Mey. ex Benth.
*12. '''[[骑师木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dermatobotrys'''''|i}} Bolus
*13. '''[[毛蕊花属]]'''　'''''Verbascum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛瓣毛蕊花属]]'''　'''''Blattaria''''' Mill.
*14. '''[[石玄参属]]'''　'''''Nathaliella''''' B. Fedtsch.
*15. '''[[玄参属]]'''　'''''Scrophularia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏玄参属]]'''　'''''Oreosolen''''' Hook. f.
*16. '''[[雨地花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jamesbrittenia'''''|i}} Kuntze
*17. '''[[水茫草属]]'''　'''''Limosella''''' L.
*18. '''[[雪朵花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sutera'''''|i}} Roth
*19. '''[[百可花属]]''' {{Sm|(裂口花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chaenostoma'''''|i}} Benth.
===497. [[耀仙木科]]　Stilbaceae Kunth===
*1. '''[[挂钟树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Halleria'''''|i}} L.
===498. [[母草科]]　Linderniaceae Borsch, K. Müll. & Eb. Fisch.===
*1. '''[[陌上菜属]]'''　'''''Lindernia''''' All.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[北美母草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ilysanthes'''''|v}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小泥花属]]''' {{Sm|(小花草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Micranthemum'''''|v}} Michx.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶陌上菜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Virchowia'''''|v}} Schenk
*2. '''[[苦玄参属]]'''　'''''Picria''''' Lour.
*3. '''[[三翅萼属]]'''　'''''Legazpia''''' Blanco
*4. '''[[黏毛母草属]]'''　'''''Yamazakia''''' W. R. Barker, Y. S. Liang & Wannan
*5. '''[[蝴蝶草属]]'''　'''''Torenia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小花蝴蝶草属]]'''　'''''Nortenia''''' Thouars
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[母草属]]'''　'''''Ucnopsolen''''' Raf.
*6. '''[[泥花草属]]'''　'''''Bonnaya''''' Link & Otto
*7. '''[[羽母草属]]'''　'''''Vandellia''''' P. Browne ex L.
*8. '''[[头花母草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pierranthus'''''|i}} Bonati
*9. '''[[碗柱草属]]'''　'''''Craterostigma''''' Hochst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽叶母草属]]'''　'''''Mitranthus''''' Hochst.
===499. [[腺毛草科]]　Byblidaceae Domin===
*1. '''[[腺毛草属]]''' {{Sm|(捕虫纸草属，二型腺毛属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Byblis'''''|i}} Salisb.
===500. [[角胡麻科]]　Martyniaceae Horan.===
*1. '''[[角胡麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Martynia'''''|v}} L.
*2. '''[[长角胡麻属]]''' {{Sm|(单角胡麻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Proboscidea'''''|i}} Schmidel
===501. [[芝麻科]]　Pedaliaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[钩刺麻属]]''' {{Sm|(黄花胡麻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Uncarina'''''|i}} (Baill.) Stapf
*2. '''[[爪钩草属]]''' {{Sm|(南非钩麻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Harpagophytum'''''|i}} DC. ex Meisn.
*3. '''[[佛肚麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pterodiscus'''''|i}} Hook.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木果佛肚麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pedaliophyton'''''|i}} Engl.
*4. '''[[刺麻木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sesamothamnus'''''|i}} Welw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[无距刺麻木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sigmatosiphon'''''|i}} Engl.
*5. '''[[芝麻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sesamum'''''|i}} L.
===502. [[爵床科]]　Acanthaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[瘤子草属]]'''　'''''Nelsonia''''' R. Br.
*2. '''[[鳞堇花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elytraria'''''|i}} Michx.
*3. '''[[叉柱花属]]'''　'''''Staurogyne''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蛇根叶属]]'''　'''''Ophiorrhiziphyllon''''' Kurz
*4. '''[[海榄雌属]]'''　'''''Avicennia''''' L.
*5. '''[[山牵牛属]]'''　'''''Thunbergia''''' Retz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翼叶山牵牛属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Endomelas'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红花山牵牛属]]'''　'''''Hexacentris''''' Nees
*6. '''[[心钟藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Meyenia'''''|i}} Nees
*7. '''[[单药花属]]''' {{Sm|(斑马花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Aphelandra'''''|i}} R. Br.
*8. '''[[十字爵床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crossandra'''''|i}} Salisb.
*9. '''[[百簕花属]]'''　'''''Blepharis''''' Juss.
*10. '''[[银脉爵床属]]''' {{Sm|(工藤爵床属)}}　'''''Kudoacanthus''''' Hosok.
*11. '''[[老鼠簕属]]'''　'''''Acanthus''''' L.
*12. '''[[茸烛木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Whitfieldia'''''|i}} Hook.
*13. '''[[火焰花属]]'''　'''''Phlogacanthus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳔冠花属]]'''　'''''Cystacanthus''''' T. Anderson
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[糙叶火焰花属]]'''　'''''Janasia''''' Raf.
*14. '''[[裸柱草属]]'''　'''''Gymnostachyum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小苞爵床属]]'''　'''''Cryptophragmium''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南裸柱草属]]'''　'''''Parajusticia''''' Benoist
*15. '''[[穿心莲属]]'''　'''''Andrographis''''' Wall. ex Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽丝爵床属]]'''　'''''Haplanthoides''''' H. W. Li
*16. '''[[色萼花属]]'''　'''''Chroesthes''''' Benoist
*17. '''[[鳞花草属]]'''　'''''Lepidagathis''''' Willd.
*18. '''[[假杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Barleria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫萼假杜鹃属]]'''　'''''Pseudobarleria''''' Oerst.
*19. '''[[莽银花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crabbea'''''|i}} Harv.
*20. '''[[喜花草属]]''' {{Sm|(可爱花属)}}　'''''Eranthemum''''' L.
*21. '''[[拟地皮消属]]'''　'''''Pseudosiphonium''''' E. A. Tripp
*22. '''[[地皮消属]]'''　'''''Pararuellia''''' Bremek. & Nann.-Bremek.
*23. '''[[芦莉草属]]'''　'''''Ruellia''''' Plum. ex L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[艳芦莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arrhostoxylon'''''|i}} Mart. ex Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赛山蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Blechum'''''|v}} P. Browne
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楠草属]]''' {{Sm|(双翅爵床属)}}　'''''Dipteracanthus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灯笼芦莉属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stephanophysum'''''|i}} Pohl
*24. '''[[恋岩花属]]'''　'''''Sinoacanthus''''' E. A. Tripp
*25. '''[[马蓝属]]'''　'''''Strobilanthes''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[腺背蓝属]]'''　'''''Adenacanthus''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖蕊花属]]''' {{Sm|(尖药草属)}}　'''''Aechmanthera''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[板蓝属]]'''　'''''Baphicacanthus''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄猄草属]]''' {{Sm|(梭果爵床属)}}　'''''Championella''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉花草属]]''' {{Sm|(疏花马蓝属)}}　'''''Diflugossa''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[偏花马蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ditrichospermum'''''|i}} Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楔叶马蓝属]]'''　'''''Dossifluga''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金足草属]]''' {{Sm|(曲蕊马蓝属)}}　'''''Goldfussia''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山一笼鸡属]]'''　'''''Gutzlaffia''''' Hance
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[半插花属]]''' {{Sm|(半柱花属)}}　'''''Hemigraphis''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[延苞蓝属]]'''　'''''Hymenochlaena''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兰崁马蓝属]]''' {{Sm|(兰嵌马蓝属)}}　'''''Parachampionella''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南一笼鸡属]]'''　'''''Paragutzlaffia''''' H. P. Tsui
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[耳叶马蓝属]]''' {{Sm|(耳叶爵床属)}}　'''''Perilepta''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假尖蕊属]]'''　'''''Pseudaechmanthera''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假蓝属]]'''　'''''Pteroptychia''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红毛蓝属]]'''　'''''Pyrrothrix''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[糯米香属]]''' {{Sm|(长穗马蓝属)}}　'''''Semnostachya''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄球花属]]'''　'''''Sericocalyx''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[合页草属]]'''　'''''Sympagis''''' (Nees) Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肖笼鸡属]]'''　'''''Tarphochlamys''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长苞蓝属]]'''　'''''Tetraglochidium''''' Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四苞蓝属]]'''　'''''Tetragoga''''' Bremek.
*26. '''[[溪君木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Suessenguthia'''''|i}} Merxm.
*27. '''[[少君木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sanchezia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
*28. '''[[水蓑衣属]]'''　'''''Hygrophila''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小狮子草属]]'''　'''''Hemiadelphis''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞花水蓑衣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nomaphila'''''|i}} Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[连丝草属]]'''　'''''Synnema''''' Benth.
*29. '''[[逐马蓝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brillantaisia'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*30. '''[[肾苞草属]]'''　'''''Phaulopsis''''' Willd.
*31. '''[[钟花草属]]'''　'''''Codonacanthus''''' Nees
*32. '''[[十万错属]]'''　'''''Asystasia''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白接骨属]]'''　'''''Asystasiella''''' Lindau
*33. '''[[号角花属]]''' {{Sm|(太平爵床属)}}　'''''Mackaya''''' Harv.
*34. '''[[秋英爵床属]]'''　'''''Cosmianthemum''''' Bremek.
*35. '''[[红楼花属]]''' {{Sm|(鸡冠爵床属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Odontonema'''''|i}} Nees
*36. '''[[小齿爵床属]]'''　'''''Wuacanthus''''' Y. F. Deng, N. H. Xia & H. Peng
*37. '''[[山壳骨属]]''' {{Sm|(钩粉草属，拟美花属)}}　'''''Pseuderanthemum''''' Radlk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多变山壳骨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chrestienia'''''|i}} Montrouz. ex Beauvis.
*38. '''[[南山壳骨属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruspolia'''''|i}} Lindau
*39. '''[[兔耳爵床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ruttya'''''|i}} Harv.
*40. '''[[彩叶木属]]''' {{Sm|(紫叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Graptophyllum'''''|i}} Nees
*41. '''[[纤穗爵床属]]'''　'''''Leptostachya''''' Nees
*42. '''[[叠舌花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ptyssiglottis'''''|i}} T. Anderson
*43. '''[[叉序草属]]''' {{Sm|(叉序花属)}}　'''''Isoglossa''''' Oerst.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短冠叉序草属]]'''　'''''Strophacanthus''''' Lindau
*44. '''[[鳄嘴花属]]''' {{Sm|(扭序花属)}}　'''''Clinacanthus''''' Nees
*45. '''[[芒羽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schaueria'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金羽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Flavicoma'''''|i}} Raf.
*46. '''[[网纹草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fittonia'''''|i}} Coem.
*47. '''[[金苞花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pachystachys'''''|i}} Nees
*48. '''[[焰鹃花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anisacanthus'''''|i}} Nees
*49. '''[[塔鹃花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetramerium'''''|i}} Nees
*50. '''[[孩儿草属]]'''　'''''Rungia''''' Nees
*51. '''[[驳骨草属]]'''　'''''Vada-kodi''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野靛棵属]]'''　'''''Mananthes''''' Bremek.
*52. '''[[鸭嘴花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Adhatoda'''''|v}} Mill.
*53. '''[[白苞爵床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nicoteba'''''|i}} Lindau
*54. '''[[针子草属]]'''　'''''Rhaphidospora''''' Nees
*55. '''[[爵床属]]'''　'''''Rostellularia''''' Rchb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杜根藤属]]'''　'''''Calophanoides''''' Ridl.
*56. '''[[灵枝草属]]''' {{Sm|(白鹤灵芝属)}}　'''''Rhinacanthus''''' Nees
*57. '''[[枪刀药属]]'''　'''''Hypoestes''''' Sol. ex R. Br.
*58. '''[[狗肝菜属]]'''　'''''Dicliptera''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[观音草属]]''' {{Sm|(九头狮子草属)}}　'''''Peristrophe''''' Nees
*59. '''[[美爵床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dianthera'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红唇花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Beloperone'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[麒麟吐珠属]]''' {{Sm|(虾衣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Calliaspidia'''''|i}} Bremek.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珊瑚花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtanthera'''''|i}} Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[悦珊花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jacobinia'''''|i}} Nees ex Moric.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[赤苞花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Megaskepasma'''''|i}} Lindau
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[烟火花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Porphyrocoma'''''|i}} Scheidw. ex Hook.
*60. '''[[茎花爵床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclacanthus'''''|i}} S. Moore
===503. [[紫葳科]]　Bignoniaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[蓝花楹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jacaranda'''''|i}} Juss.
*2. '''[[悬果藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eccremocarpus'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[智利悬果藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calampelis'''''|i}} D. Don
*3. '''[[凌霄属]]'''　'''''Campsis''''' Lour.
*4. '''[[黄钟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tecoma'''''|i}} Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[栗叶黄钟花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stenolobium'''''|i}} D. Don
*5. '''[[角蒿属]]'''　'''''Incarvillea''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[两头毛属]]'''　'''''Amphicome''''' (R. Br. ex Royle) Royle ex G. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中亚角蒿属]]'''　'''''Niedzwedzkia''''' B. Fedtsch.
*6. '''[[非洲凌霄属]]''' {{Sm|(肖粉凌霄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Podranea'''''|i}} Sprague
*7. '''[[硬骨凌霄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tecomaria'''''|i}} (Endl.) Spach
*8. '''[[金盖树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Deplanchea'''''|i}} Vieill.
*9. '''[[粉花凌霄属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pandorea'''''|i}} (Endl.) Spach
*10. '''[[披风木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Delostoma'''''|i}} D. Don
*11. '''[[胡姬藤属]]''' {{Sm|(胡姬蔓属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Adenocalymma'''''|i}} Mart. ex Meisn.
*12. '''[[鹰爪藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dolichandra'''''|v}} Cham.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[猫爪藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Doxantha'''''|v}} Miers
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蝠爪藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Macfadyena'''''|i}} A. DC.
*13. '''[[香钟藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Distictis'''''|i}} Mart. ex Meisn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红钟藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phaedranthus'''''|i}} Miers
*14. '''[[猴梳藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pithecoctenium'''''|i}} Mart. ex Meisn.
*15. '''[[杯领藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Amphilophium'''''|i}} Kunth
*16. '''[[蒜香藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mansoa'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小蒜香藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudocalymma'''''|i}} A. Samp. & Kuhlm.
*17. '''[[炮仗藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pyrostegia'''''|i}} C. Presl
*18. '''[[黄葳属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anemopaegma'''''|i}} Mart. ex Meisn.
*19. '''[[号角藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bignonia'''''|i}} L.
*20. '''[[紫铃藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Saritaea'''''|i}} Dugand
*21. '''[[连理藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Clytostoma'''''|i}} Miers ex Bureau
*22. '''[[彩虹藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cuspidaria'''''|i}} DC.
*23. '''[[棱盂藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fridericia'''''|i}} Mart.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[二叶藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arrabidaea'''''|i}} DC.
*24. '''[[老鸦烟筒花属]]''' {{Sm|(烟筒花属)}}　'''''Millingtonia''''' L. f.
*25. '''[[照夜白属]]'''　'''''Nyctocalos''''' Teijsm. & Binn.
*26. '''[[木蝴蝶属]]'''　'''''Oroxylum''''' Vent.
*27. '''[[沙楸属]]''' {{Sm|(沙漠葳属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chilopsis'''''|i}} D. Don
*28. '''[[梓属]]'''　'''''Catalpa''''' Scop.
*29. '''[[栎铃木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tabebuia'''''|i}} Gomes ex DC.
*30. '''[[棱瓜木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cybistax'''''|i}} Mart. ex Meisn.
*31. '''[[艳阳花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Roseodendron'''''|i}} Miranda
*32. '''[[风铃木属]]''' {{Sm|(哈德木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Handroanthus'''''|i}} Mattos
*33. '''[[蜡烛树属]]''' {{Sm|(蜡烛果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Parmentiera'''''|i}} DC.
*34. '''[[葫芦树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crescentia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[叉叶木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pteromischus'''''|i}} Pichon
*35. '''[[翅叶木属]]'''　'''''Pauldopia''''' Steenis
*36. '''[[火烧花属]]'''　'''''Mayodendron''''' Kurz
*37. '''[[菜豆树属]]'''　'''''Radermachera''''' Zoll. & Moritzi
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[广西菜豆树属]]'''　'''''Lagaropyxis''''' Miq.
*38. '''[[刺钟木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhigozum'''''|i}} Burch.
*39. '''[[火焰树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Spathodea'''''|i}} P. Beauv.
*40. '''[[吊瓜树属]]''' {{Sm|(吊灯树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Kigelia'''''|i}} DC.
*41. '''[[羽叶楸属]]'''　'''''Stereospermum''''' Cham.
*42. '''[[厚膜树属]]'''　'''''Fernandoa''''' Welw. ex Seem.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[顶序厚膜树属]]'''　'''''Haplophragma''''' Dop
*43. '''[[异膜楸属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heterophragma'''''|i}} DC.
*44. '''[[银角树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dolichandrone'''''|i}} (Fenzl) Seem.
*45. '''[[猫尾木属]]''' {{Sm|(猫尾树属)}}　'''''Markhamia''''' Seem. ex Baill.
*46. '''[[疣果木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Colea'''''|i}} Bojer ex Meisn.
===504. [[狸藻科]]　Lentibulariaceae Rich.===
*1. '''[[捕虫堇属]]'''　'''''Pinguicula''''' L.
*2. '''[[旋刺草属]]''' {{Sm|(螺旋狸藻属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Genlisea'''''|i}} A. St.-Hil.
*3. '''[[狸藻属]]'''　'''''Utricularia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[挖耳草属]]'''　'''''Askofake''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[库蒙挖耳草属]]'''　'''''Diurospermum''''' Edgew.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆叶挖耳草属]]'''　'''''Meloneura''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长梗挖耳草属]]'''　'''''Nelipus''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短梗挖耳草属]]'''　'''''Pelidnia''''' Barnhart
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[丝叶狸藻属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plesisa'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细叶狸藻属]]'''　'''''Xananthes''''' Raf.
===505. [[马鞭草科]]　Verbenaceae J. St.-Hil.===
*1. '''[[蓝花藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petrea'''''|i}} L.
*2. '''[[假连翘属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Duranta'''''|v}} L.
*3. '''[[假马鞭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stachytarpheta'''''|v}} Vahl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红花假马鞭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cymburus'''''|i}} Salisb.
*4. '''[[雪鞭草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chascanum'''''|i}} E. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[楔叶雪鞭草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plexipus'''''|i}} Raf.
*5. '''[[琴木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Citharexylum'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[美女樱属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glandularia'''''|i}} J. F. Gmel.
*7. '''[[马鞭草属]]'''　'''''Verbena''''' L.
*8. '''[[橙香木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aloysia'''''|i}} Paláu
*9. '''[[过江藤属]]'''　'''''Phyla''''' Lour.
*10. '''[[马缨丹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lantana'''''|v}} L.
===506. [[唇形科]]　Lamiaceae Martinov===
*1. '''[[紫珠属]]'''　'''''Callicarpa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木紫珠属]]'''　'''''Agonon''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[日本紫珠属]]'''　'''''Amictonis''''' Raf.
*2. '''[[木薄荷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Prostanthera'''''|i}} Labill.
*3. '''[[迷南苏属]]''' {{Sm|(澳迷迭香属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Westringia'''''|i}} Sm.
*4. '''[[绒苞藤属]]'''　'''''Congea''''' Roxb.
*5. '''[[六苞藤属]]'''　'''''Symphorema''''' Roxb.
*6. '''[[楔翅藤属]]'''　'''''Sphenodesme''''' Jack
*7. '''[[牡荆属]]'''　'''''Vitex''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南牡荆属]]'''　'''''Tripinna''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假紫珠属]]'''　'''''Tsoongia''''' Merr.
*8. '''[[喜雨草属]]'''　'''''Ombrocharis''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*9. '''[[野苏子属]]'''　'''''Vuhuangia''''' Solomon Raju, Molinari & Mayta
*10. '''[[香薷属]]'''　'''''Elsholtzia''''' Willd.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[穗花香薷属]]'''　'''''Aphanochilus''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆盖花属]]'''　'''''Cyclostegia''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[密花香薷属]]'''　'''''Paulseniella''''' Briq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛穗香薷属]]'''　'''''Platyelasma''''' Kitag.
*11. '''[[马香草属]]''' {{Sm|(二蕊紫苏属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Collinsonia'''''|i}} L.
*12. '''[[紫苏属]]'''　'''''Perilla''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[茴茴苏属]]'''　'''''Dentidia''''' Lour.
*13. '''[[香简草属]]'''　'''''Keiskea''''' Miq.
*14. '''[[石荠苎属]]'''　'''''Mosla''''' (Benth.) Buch.-Ham. ex Maxim.
*15. '''[[筒冠花属]]'''　'''''Siphocranion''''' Kud&ocirc;
*16. '''[[薰衣草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lavandula'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多裂薰衣草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fabricia'''''|i}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[法国薰衣草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stoechas'''''|i}} Mill.
*17. '''[[四轮香属]]'''　'''''Hanceola''''' Kud&ocirc;
*18. '''[[山香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mesosphaerum'''''|v}} P. Browne
*19. '''[[吊球草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hyptis'''''|v}} Jacq.
*20. '''[[香茶菜属]]''' {{Sm|(等齿木属)}}　'''''Isodon''''' (Schrad. ex Benth.) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[回菜花属]]'''　'''''Amethystanthus''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细锥香茶菜属]]'''　'''''Rabdosia''''' (Blume) Hassk.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[子宫草属]]''' {{Sm|(葶花属)}}　'''''Skapanthus''''' C. Y. Wu & H. W. Li
*21. '''[[逐风草属]]'''　'''''Platostoma''''' P. Beauv.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尖头花属]]'''　'''''Acrocephalus''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小冠薰属]]'''　'''''Basilicum''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[角花属]]'''　'''''Ceratanthus''''' F. Muell. ex G. Taylor
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[网萼木属]]'''　'''''Geniosporum''''' Wall. ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[凉粉草属]]'''　'''''Mesona''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[龙船草属]]'''　'''''Nosema''''' Prain
*22. '''[[鸡脚参属]]'''　'''''Orthosiphon''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肾茶属]]'''　'''''Clerodendranthus''''' Kud&ocirc;
*23. '''[[罗勒属]]'''　'''''Ocimum''''' L.
*24. '''[[麝香木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tetradenia'''''|i}} Benth.
*25. '''[[延命草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plectranthus'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*26. '''[[鞘蕊花属]]'''　'''''Coleus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[排草香属]]'''　'''''Anisochilus''''' Wall. ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牛尾草属]]'''　'''''Rabdosiella''''' Codd
*27. '''[[蜜蜂花属]]'''　'''''Melissa''''' L.
*28. '''[[鼠尾草属]]'''　'''''Salvia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[朱唇属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calosphace'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[胶质鼠尾草属]]'''　'''''Drymosphace''''' Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白唇苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Epiadena'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[一串红属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Fenixanthes'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[彩顶鼠尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Flipanta'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮生鼠尾草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hemisphace'''''|i}} Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[奇亚苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kiosmina'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[醋栗苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lasemia'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[分药花属]]'''　'''''Perovskia''''' Kar.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[牧苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plethiosphace'''''|i}} Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[迷迭香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rosmarinus'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香紫苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sclarea'''''|i}} Mill.
*29. '''[[夏枯草属]]'''　'''''Prunella''''' L.
*30. '''[[地笋属]]'''　'''''Lycopus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[东美地笋属]]'''　'''''Euhemus''''' Raf.
*31. '''[[荆芥属]]'''　'''''Nepeta''''' L.
*32. '''[[扭连钱属]]'''　'''''Marmoritis''''' Benth.
*33. '''[[扭藿香属]]'''　'''''Lophanthus''''' Adans.
*34. '''[[裂叶荆芥属]]'''　'''''Schizonepeta''''' (Benth.) Briq.
*35. '''[[青兰属]]'''　'''''Dracocephalum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长蕊青兰属]]'''　'''''Fedtschenkiella''''' (C. B. Clarke ex Hook. f.) Kudr.
*36. '''[[扁柄草属]]'''　'''''Lallemantia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*37. '''[[神香草属]]'''　'''''Hyssopus''''' L.
*38. '''[[藿香属]]'''　'''''Agastache''''' J. Clayton ex Gronov.
*39. '''[[龙头草属]]'''　'''''Meehania''''' Britton
*40. '''[[活血丹属]]'''　'''''Glechoma''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白透骨消属]]''' {{Sm|(假龙头草属)}}　'''''Meehaniopsis''''' Kud&ocirc;
*41. '''[[异野芝麻属]]'''　'''''Heterolamium''''' C. Y. Wu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[长蕊草属]]'''　'''''Changruicaoia''''' Z. Y. Zhu
*42. '''[[姜味草属]]'''　'''''Micromeria''''' Benth.
*43. '''[[夏香草属]]''' {{Sm|(塔花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Satureja'''''|i}} L.
*44. '''[[滨香草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thymbra'''''|i}} L.
*45. '''[[牛至属]]'''　'''''Origanum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[甘牛至属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Majorana'''''|i}} Mill.
*46. '''[[百里香属]]'''　'''''Thymus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[亚洲百里香属]]'''　'''''Serpyllum''''' Mill.
*47. '''[[薄荷属]]'''　'''''Mentha''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[科西嘉薄荷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Audibertia'''''|i}} Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[唇萼薄荷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pulegium'''''|i}} Mill.
*48. '''[[新风轮属]]'''　'''''Antonina''''' Vved.
*49. '''[[风轮菜属]]'''　'''''Clinopodium''''' L.
*50. '''[[新塔花属]]'''　'''''Ziziphora''''' L.
*51. '''[[美国薄荷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Monarda'''''|i}} L.
*52. '''[[山薄荷属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pycnanthemum'''''|i}} Michx.
*53. '''[[柚木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tectona'''''|i}} L. f.
*54. '''[[石梓属]]'''　'''''Gmelina''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南石梓属]]'''　'''''Cumbulu''''' Rheede ex Adans.
*55. '''[[豆腐柴属]]'''　'''''Premna''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[千解草属]]'''　'''''Pygmaeopremna''''' Merr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[总序豆腐柴属]]'''　'''''Surfacea''''' Moldenke
*56. '''[[三对节属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝蝴蝶属)}}　'''''Rotheca''''' Raf.
*57. '''[[香科科属]]'''　'''''Teucrium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧香科科属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chamaedrys'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[动蕊花属]]'''　'''''Kinostemon''''' Kud&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒜味香科科属]]'''　'''''Scordium''''' Mill.
*58. '''[[四棱草属]]'''　'''''Schnabelia''''' Hand.-Mazz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[四齿四棱草属]]''' {{Sm|(四萼齿属)}}　'''''Chienodoxa''''' Y. Z. Sun
*59. '''[[掌叶石蚕属]]'''　'''''Rubiteucris''''' Kud&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[心叶石蚕属]]'''　'''''Cardioteucris''''' C. Y. Wu
*60. '''[[筋骨草属]]'''　'''''Ajuga''''' L.
*61. '''[[锥花莸属]]'''　'''''Pseudocaryopteris''''' (Briq.) P. D. Cantino
*62. '''[[叉枝莸属]]'''　'''''Tripora''''' P. D. Cantino
*63. '''[[水棘针属]]'''　'''''Amethystea''''' L.
*64. '''[[莸属]]'''　'''''Caryopteris''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兰香草属]]'''　'''''Mastacanthus''''' Endl.
*65. '''[[大青属]]''' {{Sm|(赪桐属)}}　'''''Clerodendrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[圆锥大青属]]'''　'''''Cleianthus''''' Lour. ex B. A. Gomes
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黏毛大青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Marurang'''''|i}} Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[喷泉大青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Siphoboea'''''|i}} Baill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[臭茉莉属]]'''　'''''Volkmannia''''' Jacq.
*66. '''[[苦郎树属]]'''　'''''Volkameria''''' L.
*67. '''[[辣莸属]]'''　'''''Garrettia''''' H. R. Fletcher
*68. '''[[东芭藤属]]''' {{Sm|(沃尔夫藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Petraeovitex'''''|i}} Oliv.
*69. '''[[膜萼藤属]]'''　'''''Hymenopyramis''''' Wall. ex Griff.
*70. '''[[保亭花属]]'''　'''''Wenchengia''''' C. Y. Wu & S. Chow
*71. '''[[冬红属]]''' {{Sm|(冬红花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Holmskioldia'''''|i}} Retz.
*72. '''[[火梓属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tinnea'''''|i}} Kotschy ex Hook. f.
*73. '''[[黄芩属]]'''　'''''Scutellaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[囊萼黄芩属]]'''　'''''Anaspis''''' Rech. f.
*74. '''[[歧伞花属]]'''　'''''Cymaria''''' Benth.
*75. '''[[全唇花属]]'''　'''''Holocheila''''' (Kud&ocirc;) S. Chow
*76. '''[[羽萼木属]]'''　'''''Colebrookea''''' Sm.
*77. '''[[簇序草属]]'''　'''''Craniotome''''' Rchb.
*78. '''[[冠唇花属]]'''　'''''Microtoena''''' Prain
*79. '''[[广防风属]]'''　'''''Anisomeles''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[印度广防风属]]'''　'''''Epimeredi''''' Adans.
*80. '''[[刺蕊草属]]'''　'''''Pogostemon''''' Desf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水蜡烛属]]'''　'''''Dysophylla''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水虎尾属]]'''　'''''Eusteralis''''' Raf.
*81. '''[[鳞果草属]]'''　'''''Achyrospermum''''' Blume
*82. '''[[宽管花属]]'''　'''''Eurysolen''''' Prain
*83. '''[[米团花属]]'''　'''''Leucosceptrum''''' Sm.
*84. '''[[钩子木属]]'''　'''''Rostrinucula''''' Kud&ocirc;
*85. '''[[绵穗苏属]]'''　'''''Comanthosphace''''' S. Moore
*86. '''[[锥花属]]'''　'''''Gomphostemma''''' Wall. ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[中华锥花属]]'''　'''''Taitonia''''' Yamam.
*87. '''[[铃子香属]]'''　'''''Chelonopsis''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛药花属]]'''　'''''Bostrychanthera''''' Benth.
*88. '''[[火把花属]]'''　'''''Colquhounia''''' Wall.
*89. '''[[假龙头花属]]''' {{Sm|(随意草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Physostegia'''''|i}} Benth.
*90. '''[[药水苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Betonica'''''|i}} L.
*91. '''[[鼬瓣花属]]'''　'''''Galeopsis''''' L.
*92. '''[[水苏属]]'''　'''''Stachys''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[台钱草属]]'''　'''''Suzukia''''' Kud&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[田野水苏属]]'''　'''''Trixago''''' Haller f.
*93. '''[[棉铁茶属]]'''　'''''Zietenia''''' Gled.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮刺苏属]]'''　'''''Chamaesphacos''''' Schrenk ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*94. '''[[毒马草属]]''' {{Sm|(铁尖草属)}}　'''''Sideritis''''' L.
*95. '''[[箭叶水苏属]]'''　'''''Metastachydium''''' Airy Shaw ex C. Y. Wu & H. W. Li
*96. '''[[假糙苏属]]'''　'''''Paraphlomis''''' (Prain) Prain
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[髯药草属]]'''　'''''Sinopogonanthera''''' (H. W. Li & X. H. Guo) H. W. Li
*97. '''[[小野芝麻属]]'''　'''''Matsumurella''''' Makino
*98. '''[[木糙苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phlomis'''''|i}} L.
*99. '''[[糙苏属]]'''　'''''Phlomoides''''' Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙穗属]]'''　'''''Eremostachys''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[独一味属]]'''　'''''Lamiophlomis''''' Kud&ocirc;
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[钩萼草属]]'''　'''''Notochaete''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[块根糙苏属]]'''　'''''Phlomidopsis''''' Link
*100. '''[[兔唇花属]]'''　'''''Lagochilus''''' Bunge ex Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟免唇花属]]'''　'''''Lagochilopsis''''' Knorring
*101. '''[[鬃尾草属]]'''　'''''Chaiturus''''' Willd.
*102. '''[[斜萼草属]]'''　'''''Loxocalyx''''' Hemsl.
*103. '''[[益母草属]]'''　'''''Leonurus''''' L.
*104. '''[[夏至草属]]'''　'''''Lagopsis''''' (Bunge ex Benth.) Bunge
*105. '''[[脓疮草属]]'''　'''''Panzerina''''' Soják
*106. '''[[贝壳花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Moluccella'''''|i}} L.
*107. '''[[宽萼苏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ballota'''''|i}} L.
*108. '''[[欧夏至草属]]'''　'''''Marrubium''''' L.
*109. '''[[野芝麻属]]'''　'''''Lamium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄野芝麻属]]'''　'''''Lamiastrum''''' Heist. ex Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宝盖草属]]'''　'''''Lamiopsis''''' (Dumort.) Opiz
*110. '''[[假水苏属]]'''　'''''Stachyopsis''''' Popov & Vved.
*111. '''[[绵参属]]'''　'''''Eriophyton''''' Benth.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏西绵参属]]'''　'''''Menitskia''''' Krestovsk.
*112. '''[[菱叶元宝草属]]'''　'''''Alajja''''' Ikonn.
*113. '''[[假野芝麻属]]'''　'''''Paralamium''''' Dunn
*114. '''[[绣球防风属]]'''　'''''Leucas''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[滨海白绒草属]]'''　'''''Blandina''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线叶白绒草属]]'''　'''''Hetrepta''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绉面草属]]'''　'''''Leucasia''''' Raf.
*115. '''[[狮耳花属]]''' {{Sm|(狮耳草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leonotis'''''|v}} (Pers.) R. Br.
===507. [[通泉草科]]　Mazaceae Reveal===
*1. '''[[野胡麻属]]'''　'''''Dodartia''''' L.
*2. '''[[肉果草属]]'''　'''''Lancea''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*3. '''[[通泉草属]]'''　'''''Mazus''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多枝通泉草属]]'''　'''''Hornemannia''''' Willd.
===508. [[透骨草科]]　Phrymaceae Schauer===
*1. '''[[透骨草属]]'''　'''''Phryma''''' L.
*2. '''[[沟酸浆属]]'''　'''''Erythranthe''''' Spach
*3. '''[[囊萼花属]]'''　'''''Cyrtandromoea''''' Zoll.
*4. '''[[狗面花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mimulus'''''|v}} L.
*5. '''[[小果草属]]'''　'''''Microcarpaea''''' R. Br.
*6. '''[[舌柱草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glossostigma'''''|i}} Wight & Arn.
*7. '''[[虾子草属]]'''　'''''Mimulicalyx''''' P. C. Tsoong
===509. [[美丽桐科]]　Wightiaceae Bo Li, Bing Liu, Su Liu & Y. H. Tan===
*1. '''[[美丽桐属]]'''　'''''Wightia''''' Wall.
===510. [[泡桐科]]　Paulowniaceae Nakai===
*1. '''[[泡桐属]]'''　'''''Paulownia''''' Siebold & Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秀英桐属]]''' {{Sm|(秀英花属)}}　'''''Shiuyinghua''''' Paclt
===511. [[列当科]]　Orobanchaceae Vent.===
*1. '''[[崖白菜属]]''' {{Sm|(呆白菜属)}}　'''''Triaenophora''''' (Hook. f.) Soler.
*2. '''[[地黄属]]'''　'''''Rehmannia''''' Libosch. ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*3. '''[[钟萼草属]]'''　'''''Lindenbergia''''' Lehm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[野地钟萼草属]]'''　'''''Brachycorys''''' Schrad.
*4. '''[[阴行草属]]'''　'''''Siphonostegia''''' Benth.
*5. '''[[鹿茸草属]]'''　'''''Monochasma''''' Maxim. ex Franch. & Sav.
*6. '''[[大黄花属]]''' {{Sm|(芯芭属)}}　'''''Cymbaria''''' L.
*7. '''[[草苁蓉属]]'''　'''''Boschniakia''''' C. A. Mey. ex Bong.
*8. '''[[丁座草属]]'''　'''''Xylanche''''' Beck
*9. '''[[肉苁蓉属]]'''　'''''Cistanche''''' Hoffmanns. & Link
*10. '''[[藨寄生属]]'''　'''''Gleadovia''''' Gamble & Prain
*11. '''[[豆列当属]]'''　'''''Mannagettaea''''' Harry Sm.
*12. '''[[小苞列当属]]'''　'''''Phelipanche''''' Pomel
*13. '''[[黄筒花属]]'''　'''''Phacellanthus''''' Siebold & Zucc.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天目草属]]'''　'''''Tienmuia''''' Hu
*14. '''[[列当属]]'''　'''''Orobanche''''' L.
*15. '''[[来江藤属]]'''　'''''Brandisia''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*16. '''[[马松蒿属]]'''　'''''Xizangia''''' D. Y. Hong
*17. '''[[五齿萼属]]'''　'''''Pseudobartsia''''' D. Y. Hong
*18. '''[[草柏枝属]]'''　'''''Puchiua''''' W. B. Yu
*19. '''[[翅茎草属]]'''　'''''Pterygiella''''' Oliv.
*20. '''[[山罗花属]]'''　'''''Melampyrum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[静容花属]]'''　'''''Chingyungia''''' Ai
*21. '''[[齿鳞草属]]'''　'''''Lathraea''''' L.
*22. '''[[鼻花属]]'''　'''''Rhinanthus''''' L.
*23. '''[[小米草属]]'''　'''''Euphrasia''''' L.
*24. '''[[脐草属]]'''　'''''Omphalotrix''''' Maxim.
*25. '''[[疗齿草属]]'''　'''''Odontites''''' Ludw.
*26. '''[[马先蒿属]]'''　'''''Pedicularis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[轮叶马先蒿属]]'''　'''''Pediculariopsis''''' &Aacute;. L&ouml;ve & D. L&ouml;ve
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[旌节马先蒿属]]'''　'''''Prosopia''''' Rchb.
*27. '''[[松蒿属]]'''　'''''Phtheirospermum''''' Bunge ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假胡麻草属]]'''　'''''Centrantheropsis''''' Bonati
*28. '''[[方茎草属]]'''　'''''Leptorhabdos''''' Schrenk ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*29. '''[[鸢钩草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cordylanthus'''''|i}} Nutt. ex Benth.
*30. '''[[直果草属]]'''　'''''Triphysaria''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*31. '''[[火焰草属]]'''　'''''Castilleja''''' Mutis ex L. f.
*32. '''[[短冠草属]]''' {{Sm|(短冠花属)}}　'''''Sopubia''''' Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don
*33. '''[[滇钟草属]]''' {{Sm|(钟山草属，毛冠四蕊草属)}}　'''''Petitmenginia''''' Bonati
*34. '''[[独脚金属]]'''　'''''Striga''''' Lour.
*35. '''[[黑草属]]''' {{Sm|(鬼羽箭属)}}　'''''Buchnera''''' L.
*36. '''[[胡麻草属]]'''　'''''Centranthera''''' R. Br.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮胡麻草属]]'''　'''''Razumovia''''' Spreng.
*37. '''[[黑蒴属]]'''　'''''Alectra''''' Thunb.
*38. '''[[野菰属]]'''　'''''Aeginetia''''' L.
*39. '''[[假野菰属]]'''　'''''Christisonia''''' Gardner
==127. 冬青目　Aquifoliales==
===512. [[粗丝木科]]　Stemonuraceae K&aring;rehed===
*1. '''[[粗丝木属]]''' {{Sm|(须蕊木属)}}　'''''Gomphandra''''' Wall. ex Lindl.
===513. [[心翼果科]]　Cardiopteridaceae Blume===
*1. '''[[琼榄属]]'''　'''''Gonocaryum''''' Miq.
*2. '''[[心翼果属]]'''　'''''Cardiopteris''''' Wall. ex Royle
===514. [[青荚叶科]]　Helwingiaceae Decne.===
*1. '''[[青荚叶属]]'''　'''''Helwingia''''' Willd.
===515. [[冬青科]]　Aquifoliaceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[冬青属]]'''　'''''Ilex''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多核冬青属]]'''　'''''Byronia''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[越南冬青属]]'''　'''''Hexadica''''' Lour.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全缘冬青属]]'''　'''''Othera''''' Thunb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[落叶冬青属]]'''　'''''Prinos''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伞花冬青属]]'''　'''''Pseudehretia''''' Turcz.
==128. 菊目　Asterales==
===516. [[桔梗科]]　Campanulaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[桔梗属]]'''　'''''Platycodon''''' A. DC.
*2. '''[[刺萼参属]]'''　'''''Echinocodon''''' D. Y. Hong
*3. '''[[轮钟草属]]''' {{Sm|(轮钟花属)}}　'''''Cyclocodon''''' Griff. ex Hook. f. & Thomson
*4. '''[[莺风铃属]]''' {{Sm|(加那利参属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Canarina'''''|i}} L.
*5. '''[[蓝钟花属]]'''　'''''Cyananthus''''' Wall. ex Benth.
*6. '''[[党参属]]'''　'''''Codonopsis''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金钱豹属]]'''　'''''Campanumoea''''' Blume
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[唐松草党参属]]'''　'''''Glosocomia''''' D. Don
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细钟花属]]'''　'''''Leptocodon''''' (Hook. f.) Lem.
*7. '''[[山南参属]]'''　'''''Pankycodon''''' D. Y. Hong & X. T. Ma
*8. '''[[须弥参属]]'''　'''''Himalacodon''''' D. Y. Hong & Qiang Wang
*9. '''[[辐冠参属]]''' {{Sm|(鸡蛋参属)}}　'''''Pseudocodon''''' D. Y. Hong & H. Sun
*10. '''[[蓝花参属]]'''　'''''Wahlenbergia''''' Schrad. ex Roth
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[星花草属]]'''　'''''Cephalostigma''''' A. DC.
*11. '''[[伤愈草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Jasione'''''|i}} L.
*12. '''[[疗喉草属]]''' {{Sm|(喉草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Trachelium'''''|i}} Tourn. ex L.
*13. '''[[风铃草属]]'''　'''''Campanula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[木风铃属]]''' {{Sm|(风铃木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Azorina'''''|i}} Feer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂檐风铃草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cenekia'''''|i}} Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兴安风铃草属]]'''　'''''Depierrea''''' Schltdl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩风铃属]]''' {{Sm|(草钟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Edraianthus'''''|i}} (A. DC.) A. DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[歧枝风铃草属]]'''　'''''Marianthemum''''' Schrank
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺毛风铃草属]]'''　'''''Nenningia''''' Opiz
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[团花风铃草属]]'''　'''''Weitenwebera''''' Opiz
*14. '''[[沙参属]]'''　'''''Adenophora''''' Fisch.
*15. '''[[顶孔风铃属]]'''　'''''Loreia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[风壶草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Favratia'''''|i}} Feer
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[风铃菜属]]'''　'''''Neocodon''''' Kolak. & Serdyuk.
*16. '''[[同钟花属]]'''　'''''Homocodon''''' D. Y. Hong
*17. '''[[袋果草属]]''' {{Sm|(肉荚草属)}}　'''''Peracarpa''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*18. '''[[疆风铃属]]'''　'''''Victorovia''''' Su Liu, Z. Zhou & Bing Liu
*19. '''[[牧根草属]]'''　'''''Asyneuma''''' Griseb. & Schenk
*20. '''[[裂檐花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phyteuma'''''|i}} L.
*21. '''[[异檐花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Triodanis'''''|v}} Raf.
*22. '''[[紫锤草属]]'''　'''''Colensoa''''' Hook. f.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山紫锤草属]]'''　'''''Speirema''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*23. '''[[半边莲属]]'''　'''''Lobelia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南非半边莲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Enchysia'''''|i}} C. Presl
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[铜锤玉带属]]''' {{Sm|(铜锤玉带草属)}}　'''''Pratia''''' Gaudich.
*24. '''[[马醉草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hippobroma'''''|v}} G. Don
*25. '''[[长星花属]]''' {{Sm|(同瓣草属，同瓣花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Isotoma'''''|i}} (R. Br.) Lindl.
===517. [[五膜草科]]　Pentaphragmataceae J. Agardh===
*1. '''[[五膜草属]]'''　'''''Pentaphragma''''' Wall. ex G. Don
===518. [[花柱草科]]　Stylidiaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[花柱草属]]'''　'''''Stylidium''''' Sw. ex Willd.
===519. [[雪叶木科]]　Argophyllaceae Takht.===
*1. '''[[秋叶果属]]''' {{Sm|(假醉鱼草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Corokia'''''|i}} A. Cunn.
*2. '''[[雪叶木属]]''' {{Sm|(雪叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Argophyllum'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
===520. [[睡菜科]]　Menyanthaceae Dumort.===
*1. '''[[睡菜属]]'''　'''''Menyanthes''''' Tourn. ex L.
*2. '''[[荇菜属]]''' {{Sm|(莕菜属)}}　'''''Nymphoides''''' Ség.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香蕉草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trachysperma'''''|i}} Raf.
===521. [[草海桐科]]　Goodeniaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[草海桐属]]'''　'''''Scaevola''''' L.
*2. '''[[离根香属]]'''　'''''Calogyne''''' R. Br.
===522. [[菊科]]　Asteraceae Bercht. & J. Presl===
*1. '''[[龙菊木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chuquiraga'''''|i}} Juss.
*2. '''[[刺菊木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barnadesia'''''|i}} Mutis
*3. '''[[须菊木属]]''' {{Sm|(卷须菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mutisia'''''|i}} L. f.
*4. '''[[和尚菜属]]'''　'''''Adenocaulon''''' Hook.
*5. '''[[大丁草属]]'''　'''''Leibnitzia''''' Cass.
*6. '''[[火石花属]]'''　'''''Oreoseris''''' DC.
*7. '''[[非洲菊属]]''' {{Sm|(扶郎花属)}}　'''''Gerbera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛足菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lasiopus'''''|i}} Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[兔耳一支箭属]]''' {{Sm|(兔耳一枝箭属，毛大丁草属)}}　'''''Piloselloides''''' (Less.) C. Jeffrey ex Cufod.
*8. '''[[栌菊木属]]'''　'''''Nouelia''''' Franch.
*9. '''[[白菊木属]]'''　'''''Leucomeris''''' D. Don
*10. '''[[蓝刺头属]]'''　'''''Echinops''''' L.
*11. '''[[革苞菊属]]'''　'''''Tugarinovia''''' Iljin
*12. '''[[苍术属]]'''　'''''Atractylodes''''' DC.
*13. '''[[刺苞菊属]]''' {{Sm|(刺苞术属)}}　'''''Carlina''''' L.
*14. '''[[尚武菊属]]'''　'''''Shangwua''''' Yu J. Wang, Raab-Straube, Susanna & J. Quan Liu
*15. '''[[干花菊属]]''' {{Sm|(旱花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xeranthemum'''''|i}} Tourn. ex L.
*16. '''[[大翅蓟属]]'''　'''''Onopordum''''' L.
*17. '''[[山牛蒡属]]'''　'''''Synurus''''' Iljin
*18. '''[[翅膜菊属]]''' {{Sm|(亚飞廉属)}}　'''''Alfredia''''' Cass.
*19. '''[[疆菊属]]'''　'''''Syreitschikovia''''' Pavlov
*20. '''[[肋果蓟属]]'''　'''''Ancathia''''' DC.
*21. '''[[黄缨菊属]]'''　'''''Xanthopappus''''' C. Winkl.
*22. '''[[猬菊属]]''' {{Sm|(蝟菊属)}}　'''''Olgaea''''' Iljin
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鳍蓟属]]'''　'''''Takeikadzuchia''''' Kitag. & Kitam.
*23. '''[[泥胡菜属]]'''　'''''Hemisteptia''''' Bunge ex Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*24. '''[[风毛菊属]]'''　'''''Saussurea''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[尼泊尔风毛菊属]]'''　'''''Aplotaxis''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒲公英风毛菊属]]'''　'''''Cyathidium''''' Lindl. ex Royle
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[盐地风毛菊属]]'''　'''''Heterotrichum''''' M. Bieb.
*25. '''[[须弥菊属]]'''　'''''Himalaiella''''' Raab-Straube
*26. '''[[重羽菊属]]'''　'''''Diplazoptilon''''' Y. Ling
*27. '''[[川木香属]]''' {{Sm|(藏菊属)}}　'''''Dolomiaea''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[怒江川木香属]]'''　'''''Vladimiria''''' Iljin
*28. '''[[苓菊属]]'''　'''''Jurinea''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛蕊菊属]]'''　'''''Pilostemon''''' Iljin
*29. '''[[云木香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aucklandia'''''|i}} Falc.
*30. '''[[齿冠菊属]]'''　'''''Frolovia''''' (DC.) Lipsch.
*31. '''[[刺头菊属]]'''　'''''Cousinia''''' Cass.
*32. '''[[牛蒡属]]'''　'''''Arctium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虎头蓟属]]'''　'''''Schmalhausenia''''' C. Winkl.
*33. '''[[菜蓟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cynara'''''|i}} L.
*34. '''[[水飞蓟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Silybum'''''|i}} Vaill. ex Adans.
*35. '''[[蓟属]]'''　'''''Cirsium''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺儿菜属]]'''　'''''Cephalonoplos''''' Fourr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺叶蓟属]]'''　'''''Epitrachys''''' (DC. ex Duby) K. Koch
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绵毛蓟属]]'''　'''''Eriolepis''''' Cass.
*36. '''[[高莛蓟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tyrimnus'''''|i}} Cass.
*37. '''[[飞廉属]]'''　'''''Carduus''''' L.
*38. '''[[丝苞菊属]]''' {{Sm|(球菊属，毬菊属)}}　'''''Bolocephalus''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*39. '''[[白刺菊属]]'''　'''''Schischkinia''''' Iljin
*40. '''[[伪泥胡菜属]]'''　'''''Serratula''''' L.
*41. '''[[绒矢车菊属]]''' {{Sm|(矮小矢车菊属)}}　'''''Psephellus''''' Cass.
*42. '''[[黄矢车菊属]]''' {{Sm|(欧亚矢车菊属)}}　'''''Rhaponticoides''''' Vaill. ex Vaill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧亚黄矢车菊属]]'''　'''''Bielzia''''' Schur
*43. '''[[半毛菊属]]'''　'''''Crupina''''' (Pers.) DC.
*44. '''[[矢车菊属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝花矢车菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cyanus'''''|i}} Mill.
*45. '''[[疆矢车菊属]]'''　'''''Centaurea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[薄鳞菊属]]'''　'''''Chartolepis''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏掖花属]]'''　'''''Cnicus''''' L.
*46. '''[[红花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Carthamus'''''|v}} L.
*47. '''[[琉苞菊属]]'''　'''''Hyalea''''' (DC.) Jaub. & Spach
*48. '''[[滇麻花头属]]'''　'''''Archiserratula''''' L. Martins
*49. '''[[旋瓣菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Volutaria'''''|i}} Cass.
*50. '''[[针苞菊属]]'''　'''''Tricholepis''''' DC.
*51. '''[[珀菊属]]'''　'''''Amberboa''''' (Pers.) Less.
*52. '''[[斜果菊属]]'''　'''''Plagiobasis''''' Schrenk
*53. '''[[纹苞菊属]]'''　'''''Russowia''''' C. Winkl.
*54. '''[[麻花头属]]'''　'''''Klasea''''' Cass.
*55. '''[[寡毛菊属]]'''　'''''Oligochaeta''''' (DC.) K. Koch
*56. '''[[漏芦属]]'''　'''''Rhaponticum''''' Ludw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[顶羽菊属]]'''　'''''Acroptilon''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华漏芦属]]'''　'''''Klaseopsis''''' L. Martins
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[鹿草属]]'''　'''''Stemmacantha''''' Cass.
*57. '''[[兔儿风属]]'''　'''''Ainsliaea''''' DC.
*58. '''[[帚菊属]]'''　'''''Pertya''''' Sch. Bip.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蚂蚱腿子属]]'''　'''''Myripnois''''' Bunge
*59. '''[[莛菊属]]''' {{Sm|(葶菊属)}}　'''''Cavea''''' W. W. Sm. & J. Small
*60. '''[[毛鸦葱属]]'''　'''''Gelasia''''' Cass.
*61. '''[[鼠毛菊属]]'''　'''''Epilasia''''' (Bunge) Benth. & Hook. f.
*62. '''[[异芒苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Geropogon'''''|i}} L.
*63. '''[[婆罗门参属]]'''　'''''Tragopogon''''' L.
*64. '''[[拐轴鸦葱属]]'''　'''''Lipschitzia''''' Zaika, Sukhor. & N. Kilian
*65. '''[[蝎尾菊属]]'''　'''''Koelpinia''''' Pall.
*66. '''[[蛇鸦葱属]]'''　'''''Scorzonera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[华北鸦葱属]]'''　'''''Achyroseris''''' Sch. Bip.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柄果菊属]]'''　'''''Podospermum''''' DC.
*67. '''[[鸦葱属]]'''　'''''Takhtajaniantha''''' Nazarova
*68. '''[[假柄果菊属]]'''　'''''Pseudopodospermum''''' Kuth.
*69. '''[[蓝苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Catananche'''''|i}} L.
*70. '''[[山柳苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schlagintweitia'''''|i}} Griseb.
*71. '''[[绵柳菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Andryala'''''|i}} L.
*72. '''[[山柳菊属]]'''　'''''Hieracium''''' L.
*73. '''[[细毛菊属]]'''　'''''Pilosella''''' Hill
*74. '''[[菊苣属]]'''　'''''Cichorium''''' L.
*75. '''[[高莛苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Agoseris'''''|i}} Raf.
*76. '''[[花佩菊属]]'''　'''''Faberia''''' Hemsl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假花佩菊属]]'''　'''''Faberiopsis''''' C. Shih & Y. L. Chen
*77. '''[[岩参属]]'''　'''''Cicerbita''''' Wallr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[头嘴菊属]]''' {{Sm|(头喙苣属)}}　'''''Cephalorrhynchus''''' Boiss.
*78. '''[[莴苣属]]'''　'''''Lactuca''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[乳苣属]]'''　'''''Mulgedium''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[飘带果属]]''' {{Sm|(小莴苣属)}}　'''''Lactucella''''' Nazarova
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[线嘴苣属]]'''　'''''Steptorhamphus''''' Bunge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山莴苣属]]'''　'''''Lagedium''''' Soják
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雀苣属]]'''　'''''Scariola''''' F. W. Schmidt
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翅果菊属]]'''　'''''Pterocypsela''''' C. Shih
*79. '''[[毛鳞菊属]]'''　'''''Melanoseris''''' Decne.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假合头菊属]]'''　'''''Parasyncalathium''''' J. W. Zhang, Boufford & H. Sun
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　'''''Chaetoseris''''' C. Shih
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[细莴苣属]]'''　'''''Stenoseris''''' C. Shih
*80. '''[[紫菊属]]'''　'''''Notoseris''''' C. Shih
*81. '''[[假福王草属]]'''　'''''Paraprenanthes''''' C. C. Chang ex C. Shih
*82. '''[[栓果菊属]]'''　'''''Launaea''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[河西菊属]]'''　'''''Hexinia''''' H. L. Yang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[假小喙菊属]]'''　'''''Paramicrorhynchus''''' Kirp.
*83. '''[[苦苣菜属]]'''　'''''Sonchus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多枝苦荬菜属]]'''　'''''Atalanthus''''' D. Don
*84. '''[[尾喙苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Urospermum'''''|i}} Scop.
*85. '''[[猫耳菊属]]''' {{Sm|(猫儿菊属)}}　'''''Hypochaeris''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[新疆猫耳菊属]]'''　'''''Trommsdorffia''''' Bernh.
*86. '''[[狮牙苣属]]''' {{Sm|(狮齿菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Leontodon'''''|v}} L.
*87. '''[[甜苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hedypnois'''''|i}} Mill.
*88. '''[[毛连菜属]]'''　'''''Picris''''' L.
*89. '''[[粉苞菊属]]'''　'''''Chondrilla''''' L.
*90. '''[[小疮菊属]]'''　'''''Garhadiolus''''' Jaub. & Spach
*91. '''[[异喙菊属]]'''　'''''Heteracia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*92. '''[[绢毛苣属]]''' {{Sm|(绢毛菊属，兔苣属)}}　'''''Soroseris''''' Stebbins
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[肉菊属]]'''　'''''Stebbinsia''''' Lipsch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏苣属]]'''　'''''Tibetoseris''''' Sennikov
*93. '''[[耳菊属]]'''　'''''Nabalus''''' Cass.
*94. '''[[全光菊属]]'''　'''''Hololeion''''' Kitam.
*95. '''[[厚喙菊属]]'''　'''''Dubyaea''''' DC.
*96. '''[[合头菊属]]'''　'''''Syncalathium''''' Lipsch.
*97. '''[[棘头花属]]'''　'''''Acanthocephalus''''' Kar. & Kir.
*98. '''[[蒲公英属]]'''　'''''Taraxacum''''' F. H. Wigg.
*99. '''[[苦荬菜属]]'''　'''''Ixeris''''' (Cass.) Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[沙苦荬属]]''' {{Sm|(厚肋苦荬菜属)}}　'''''Chorisis''''' DC.
*100. '''[[小苦荬属]]'''　'''''Ixeridium''''' (A. Gray) Tzvelev
*101. '''[[假还阳参属]]'''　'''''Crepidiastrum''''' Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蒲公幌属]]'''　'''''Crepidifolium''''' Sennikov
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄瓜菜属]]'''　'''''Paraixeris''''' Nakai
*102. '''[[稻槎菜属]]'''　'''''Lapsanastrum''''' Pak & K. Bremer
*103. '''[[假黄鹌菜属]]'''　'''''Pseudoyoungia''''' D. Maity & Maiti
*104. '''[[黄鹌菜属]]'''　'''''Youngia''''' Cass.
*105. '''[[假苦菜属]]'''　'''''Askellia''''' W. A. Weber
*106. '''[[还阳参属]]'''　'''''Crepis''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山阳参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Barkhausia'''''|i}} Moench
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岳阳参属]]'''　'''''Soyeria''''' Monnier
*107. '''[[双苞苣属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhagadiolus'''''|i}} Juss.
*108. '''[[碱苣属]]''' {{Sm|(小苦苣菜属)}}　'''''Sonchella''''' Sennikov
*109. '''[[单托菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Haplocarpha'''''|i}} Less.
*110. '''[[赛金盏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Arctotheca'''''|i}} J. C. Wendl.
*111. '''[[熊耳菊属]]''' {{Sm|(灰毛菊属，蓝目菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arctotis'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄目菊属]]''' {{Sm|(凉菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Venidium'''''|i}} Less.
*112. '''[[勋章菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gazania'''''|i}} Gaertn.
*113. '''[[黄鸠菊属]]''' {{Sm|(黄花斑鸠菊属)}}　'''''Distephanus''''' Cass.
*114. '''[[凋缨菊属]]'''　'''''Camchaya''''' Gagnep.
*115. '''[[斑鸠菊属]]'''　'''''Gymnanthemum''''' Cass.
*116. '''[[都丽菊属]]'''　'''''Ethulia''''' L. f.
*117. '''[[驱虫菊属]]'''　'''''Baccharoides''''' Moench
*118. '''[[夜香牛属]]'''　'''''Cyanthillium''''' Blume
*119. '''[[尖鸠菊属]]'''　'''''Acilepis''''' D. Don
*120. '''[[地胆草属]]'''　'''''Elephantopus''''' L.
*121. '''[[假地胆草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudelephantopus'''''|v}} Rohr
*122. '''[[蓝冠菊属]]''' {{Sm|(钮扣花属，苹果蓟属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Centratherum'''''|v}} Cass.
*123. '''[[光耀藤属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tarlmounia'''''|v}} H. Rob., S. C. Keeley, Skvarla & R. Chan
*124. '''[[琉璃菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stokesia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*125. '''[[铁鸠菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vernonia'''''|i}} Schreb.
*126. '''[[多榔菊属]]'''　'''''Doronicum''''' L.
*127. '''[[常春菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brachyglottis'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*128. '''[[蜂斗菜属]]'''　'''''Petasites''''' Mill.
*129. '''[[款冬属]]'''　'''''Tussilago''''' L.
*130. '''[[大吴风草属]]'''　'''''Farfugium''''' Lindl.
*131. '''[[垂头菊属]]'''　'''''Cremanthodium''''' Benth.
*132. '''[[华蟹甲属]]'''　'''''Sinacalia''''' H. Rob. & Brettell
*133. '''[[蟹甲草属]]'''　'''''Parasenecio''''' W. W. Sm. & J. Small
*134. '''[[兔儿伞属]]'''　'''''Syneilesis''''' Maxim.
*135. '''[[鞘柄菊属]]'''　'''''Taimingasa''''' (Kitam.) C. Ren & Q. E. Yang
*136. '''[[橐吾属]]'''　'''''Ligularia''''' Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[灰蓝橐吾属]]'''　'''''Senecillis''''' Gaertn.
*137. '''[[假橐吾属]]'''　'''''Ligulariopsis''''' Y. L. Chen
*138. '''[[中华菊属]]'''　'''''Sinosenecio''''' B. Nord.
*139. '''[[狗舌草属]]'''　'''''Tephroseris''''' (Rchb.) Rchb.
*140. '''[[羽叶菊属]]'''　'''''Nemosenecio''''' (Kitam.) B. Nord.
*141. '''[[蒲儿根属]]'''　'''''Puergenecio''''' Ying Liu & Q. E. Yang
*142. '''[[歧笔菊属]]'''　'''''Dicercoclados''''' C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen
*143. '''[[黄蓉菊属]]''' {{Sm|(常绿千里光属，梳黄菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Euryops'''''|i}} (Cass.) Cass.
*144. '''[[厚敦菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Othonna'''''|i}} L.
*145. '''[[海南菊属]]'''　'''''Hainanecio''''' Ying Liu & Q. E. Yang
*146. '''[[藤菊属]]'''　'''''Cissampelopsis''''' (DC.) Miq.
*147. '''[[合耳菊属]]'''　'''''Synotis''''' (C. B. Clarke) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen
*148. '''[[千里光属]]'''　'''''Senecio''''' L.
*149. '''[[菊芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Erechtites'''''|v}} Raf.
*150. '''[[野茼蒿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Crassocephalum'''''|v}} Moench
*151. '''[[菊三七属]]'''　'''''Gynura''''' Cass.
*152. '''[[茄明菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Solanecio'''''|i}} (Sch. Bip.) Walp.
*153. '''[[仙人笔属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kleinia'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[仙笔草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Notonia'''''|i}} DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Notoniopsis'''''|i}} B. Nord.
*154. '''[[瓜叶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pericallis'''''|i}} D. Don
*155. '''[[一点红属]]'''　'''''Emilia''''' (Cass.) Cass.
*156. '''[[疆千里光属]]'''　'''''Jacobaea''''' Mill.
*157. '''[[蔓黄金菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pseudogynoxys'''''|i}} (Greenm.) Cabrera
*158. '''[[异果菊属]]''' {{Sm|(铜钱花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Dimorphotheca'''''|i}} Moench
*159. '''[[金盏花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Calendula'''''|i}} L.
*160. '''[[骨子菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Osteospermum'''''|i}} L.
*161. '''[[小金盏属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oligocarpus'''''|i}} Less.
*162. '''[[棉毛菊属]]''' {{Sm|(棉毛草属，绵毛菊属)}}　'''''Phagnalon''''' Cass.
*163. '''[[鼠曲草属]]''' {{Sm|(拟鼠麹草属)}}　'''''Pseudognaphalium''''' Kirp.
*164. '''[[香青属]]'''　'''''Anaphalis''''' DC.
*165. '''[[蜡菊属]]''' {{Sm|(拟蜡菊属)}}　'''''Helichrysum''''' Mill.
*166. '''[[小麦秆菊属]]''' {{Sm|(花笄属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Syncarpha'''''|i}} DC.
*167. '''[[湿鼠曲草属]]''' {{Sm|(鼠麹草属)}}　'''''Gnaphalium''''' L.
*168. '''[[垫头鼠曲属]]''' {{Sm|(垫头鼠麴草属)}}　'''''Gnomophalium''''' Greuter
*169. '''[[离缨鼠曲属]]'''　'''''Omalotheca''''' Cass.
*170. '''[[絮菊属]]'''　'''''Filago''''' Loefl. ex L.
*171. '''[[火绒草属]]'''　'''''Leontopodium''''' R. Br. ex Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[君范菊属]]'''　'''''Sinoleontopodium''''' Y. L. Chen
*172. '''[[蝶须属]]'''　'''''Antennaria''''' Gaertn.
*173. '''[[合冠鼠曲属]]''' {{Sm|(合冠鼠麴草属)}}　'''''Gamochaeta''''' Wedd.
*174. '''[[银盖鼠曲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Argyrotegium'''''|i}} J. M. Ward & Breitw.
*175. '''[[类香青属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anaphalioides'''''|i}} (Benth.) Kirp.
*176. '''[[鳞叶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucophyta'''''|i}} R. Br.
*177. '''[[舌苞菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schoenia'''''|i}} Steetz
*178. '''[[花笺菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rhodanthe'''''|i}} Lindl.
*179. '''[[密头彩鼠曲属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pycnosorus'''''|i}} Benth.
*180. '''[[金槌花属]]''' {{Sm|(金杖球属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Craspedia'''''|i}} G. Forst.
*181. '''[[银苞菊属]]''' {{Sm|(贝细工属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ammobium'''''|i}} R. Br. ex Sims
*182. '''[[麦秆菊属]]''' {{Sm|(蜡菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Xerochrysum'''''|i}} Tzvelev
*183. '''[[纸苞金绒草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Podolepis'''''|i}} Labill.
*184. '''[[米花菊属]]''' {{Sm|(新蜡菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ozothamnus'''''|i}} R. Br.
*185. '''[[滨篱菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cassinia'''''|i}} R. Br.
*186. '''[[含苞草属]]'''　'''''Symphyllocarpus''''' Maxim.
*187. '''[[毛冠菊属]]'''　'''''Nannoglottis''''' Maxim.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[固花菊属]]'''　'''''Stereosanthus''''' Franch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[玉龙毛冠菊属]]'''　'''''Vierhapperia''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*188. '''[[榄叶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Olearia'''''|i}} Moench
*189. '''[[蓝菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Felicia'''''|i}} Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[佳丽菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Charieis'''''|i}} Cass.
*190. '''[[歧伞菊属]]'''　'''''Thespis''''' DC.
*191. '''[[黄胶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Psiadia'''''|i}} Jacq.
*192. '''[[小舌菊属]]'''　'''''Microglossa''''' DC.
*193. '''[[白酒草属]]''' {{Sm|(白酒菊属)}}　'''''Eschenbachia''''' Moench
*194. '''[[田基黄属]]'''　'''''Grangea''''' Adans.
*195. '''[[鱼眼草属]]'''　'''''Dichrocephala''''' L'Hér. ex DC.
*196. '''[[碱菀属]]'''　'''''Tripolium''''' Nees
*197. '''[[乳菀属]]'''　'''''Galatella''''' Cass.
*198. '''[[麻菀属]]'''　'''''Crinitina''''' Soják
*199. '''[[藏短星菊属]]'''　'''''Neobrachyactis''''' Brouillet
*200. '''[[寒蓬属]]'''　'''''Psychrogeton''''' Boiss.
*201. '''[[丽菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bellium'''''|i}} L.
*202. '''[[雏菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Bellis'''''|i}} L.
*203. '''[[翠菊属]]'''　'''''Callistephus''''' Cass.
*204. '''[[瓶头草属]]''' {{Sm|(瓶头菊属)}}　'''''Lagenophora''''' Cass.
*205. '''[[刺冠菊属]]'''　'''''Calotis''''' R. Br.
*206. '''[[紫菀属]]'''　'''''Aster''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[莎菀属]]'''　'''''Arctogeron''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫菀木属]]'''　'''''Asterothamnus''''' Novopokr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[厚棉紫菀属]]'''　'''''Chlamydites''''' J. R. Drumm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[复芒菊属]]'''　'''''Formania''''' W. W. Sm. & J. Small
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[狗娃花属]]'''　'''''Heteropappus''''' Less.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异裂菊属]]'''　'''''Heteroplexis''''' C. C. Chang
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[马兰属]]'''　'''''Kalimeris''''' (Cass.) Cass.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裸菀属]]'''　'''''Miyamayomena''''' Kitam.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩菀属]]''' {{Sm|(岩菊属)}}　'''''Rhinactinidia''''' Novopokr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[秋分草属]]'''　'''''Rhynchospermum''''' Reinw.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[虾须草属]]'''　'''''Sheareria''''' S. Moore
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[女菀属]]'''　'''''Turczaninovia''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[藏菀属]]'''　'''''Wardaster''''' J. Small
*207. '''[[黏冠草属]]'''　'''''Myriactis''''' Less.
*208. '''[[鹅河菊属]]''' {{Sm|(雁河菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brachyscome'''''|i}} Cass.
*209. '''[[柳菀属]]''' {{Sm|(无舌紫菀属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Baccharis'''''|i}} L.
*210. '''[[金顶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Euthamia'''''|i}} (Nutt.) Cass.
*211. '''[[假金菀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heterotheca'''''|i}} Cass.
*212. '''[[飞蓬属]]'''　'''''Erigeron''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[香丝草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conyza'''''|v}} Less.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[小蓬草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conyzella'''''|v}} Fabr.
*213. '''[[白顶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sericocarpus'''''|i}} Nees
*214. '''[[一枝黄花属]]'''　'''''Solidago''''' L.
*215. '''[[偶雏菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Boltonia'''''|i}} L'Hér.
*216. '''[[联毛紫菀属]]'''　'''''Symphyotrichum''''' Nees
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短星菊属]]'''　'''''Brachyactis''''' Ledeb.
*217. '''[[北美紫菀属]]'''　'''''Eurybia''''' (Cass.) Cass.
*218. '''[[蒿菀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Machaeranthera'''''|i}} Nees
*219. '''[[灰菀属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dieteria'''''|i}} Nutt.
*220. '''[[胶菀属]]''' {{Sm|(格林菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Grindelia'''''|v}} Willd.
*221. '''[[裸柱菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Soliva'''''|v}} Ruiz & Pav.
*222. '''[[山芫荽属]]'''　'''''Cotula''''' L.
*223. '''[[异柱菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leptinella'''''|i}} Cass.
*224. '''[[熊菊属]]''' {{Sm|(乌寝花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Ursinia'''''|i}} Gaertn.
*225. '''[[扁芒菊属]]''' {{Sm|(扁毛菊属)}}　'''''Allardia''''' Decne.
*226. '''[[灰叶匹菊属]]'''　'''''Richteria''''' Kar. & Kir.
*227. '''[[小甘菊属]]'''　'''''Cancrinia''''' Kar. & Kir.
*228. '''[[小头菊属]]''' {{Sm|(小花菊属)}}　'''''Microcephala''''' Pobed.
*229. '''[[天山蓍属]]'''　'''''Handelia''''' Heimerl
*230. '''[[拟天山蓍属]]''' {{Sm|(蓍菊属，假天山蓍属，腺果菊属)}}　'''''Pseudohandelia''''' Tzvelev
*231. '''[[球黄菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Oncosiphon'''''|i}} K&auml;llersj&ouml;
*232. '''[[百花蒿属]]'''　'''''Stilpnolepis''''' Krasch.
*233. '''[[冻原白蒿属]]'''　'''''Artemisiella''''' Ghafoor
*234. '''[[短舌菊属]]'''　'''''Brachanthemum''''' DC.
*235. '''[[喀什菊属]]'''　'''''Kaschgaria''''' Poljakov
*236. '''[[女蒿属]]'''　'''''Hippolytia''''' Poljakov
*237. '''[[小滨菊属]]''' {{Sm|(小白菊属)}}　'''''Leucanthemella''''' Tzvelev
*238. '''[[线叶菊属]]'''　'''''Filifolium''''' Kitam.
*239. '''[[栎叶亚菊属]]'''　'''''Phaeostigma''''' Muldashev
*240. '''[[球序蒿属]]'''　'''''Turaniphytum''''' Poljakov
*241. '''[[紊蒿属]]'''　'''''Elachanthemum''''' Y. Ling & Y. R. Ling
*242. '''[[北极菊属]]'''　'''''Arctanthemum''''' (Tzvelev) Tzvelev
*243. '''[[太行菊属]]'''　'''''Opisthopappus''''' C. Shih
*244. '''[[亚菊属]]'''　'''''Ajania''''' Poljakov
*245. '''[[菊属]]'''　'''''Chrysanthemum''''' L.
*246. '''[[栉叶蒿属]]'''　'''''Neopallasia''''' Poljakov
*247. '''[[芙蓉菊属]]'''　'''''Crossostephium''''' Less.
*248. '''[[蒿属]]'''　'''''Artemisia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绢蒿属]]'''　'''''Seriphidium''''' (Besser ex Less.) Fourr.
*249. '''[[母菊属]]'''　'''''Matricaria''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[同花母菊属]]'''　'''''Lepidotheca''''' Nutt.
*250. '''[[辐枝菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anacyclus'''''|i}} L.
*251. '''[[蓍属]]'''　'''''Achillea''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珠蓍属]]'''　'''''Ptarmica''''' Mill.
*252. '''[[菊蒿属]]'''　'''''Tanacetum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[匹菊属]]''' {{Sm|(小黄菊属)}}　'''''Pyrethrum''''' Zinn
*253. '''[[春黄菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cota'''''|i}} J. Gay ex Guss.
*254. '''[[田春黄菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anthemis'''''|v}} L.
*255. '''[[三肋果属]]'''　'''''Tripleurospermum''''' Sch. Bip.
*256. '''[[鞘冠菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coleostephus'''''|i}} Cass.
*257. '''[[白晶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Mauranthemum'''''|i}} Vogt & Oberpr.
*258. '''[[滨菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Leucanthemum'''''|v}} Mill.
*259. '''[[果香菊属]]''' {{Sm|(黄金菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Chamaemelum'''''|i}} Mill.
*260. '''[[金凤菊属]]''' {{Sm|(枝花菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cladanthus'''''|i}} Cass.
*261. '''[[银香菊属]]''' {{Sm|(圣麻菊属，香绵菊属，棉杉菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Santolina'''''|i}} Tourn. ex L.
*262. '''[[十肋菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Nivellea'''''|i}} B. H. Wilcox, K. Bremer & Humphries
*263. '''[[黏黄菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heteranthemis'''''|i}} Schott
*264. '''[[木茼蒿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Argyranthemum'''''|i}} Webb ex Sch. Bip.
*265. '''[[茼蒿属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Glebionis'''''|v}} Cass.
*266. '''[[蒿子秆属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ismelia'''''|i}} Cass.
*267. '''[[画笔菊属]]'''　'''''Ajaniopsis''''' C. Shih
*268. '''[[羊耳菊属]]'''　'''''Duhaldea''''' DC.
*269. '''[[杯菊属]]'''　'''''Cyathocline''''' Cass.
*270. '''[[艾纳香属]]'''　'''''Blumea''''' DC.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拟艾纳香属]]'''　'''''Blumeopsis''''' Gagnep.
*271. '''[[牛眼菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Buphthalmum'''''|i}} L.
*272. '''[[旋覆花属]]'''　'''''Inula''''' L.
*273. '''[[天名精属]]''' {{Sm|(金挖耳属)}}　'''''Carpesium''''' L.
*274. '''[[苇谷草属]]'''　'''''Pentanema''''' Cass.
*275. '''[[蚤草属]]'''　'''''Pulicaria''''' Gaertn.
*276. '''[[六棱菊属]]'''　'''''Laggera''''' Sch. Bip. ex Benth. & Hook. f.
*277. '''[[翼茎草属]]'''　'''''Pterocaulon''''' Elliott
*278. '''[[球菊属]]''' {{Sm|(鹅不食草属)}}　'''''Epaltes''''' Cass.
*279. '''[[花花柴属]]'''　'''''Karelinia''''' Less.
*280. '''[[阔苞菊属]]'''　'''''Pluchea''''' Cass.
*281. '''[[假飞蓬属]]'''　'''''Pseudoconyza''''' Cuatrec.
*282. '''[[戴星草属]]'''　'''''Sphaeranthus''''' L.
*283. '''[[石胡荽属]]'''　'''''Centipeda''''' Lour.
*284. '''[[山黄菊属]]'''　'''''Anisopappus''''' Hook. & Arn.
*285. '''[[堆心菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Helenium'''''|i}} L.
*286. '''[[天人菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gaillardia'''''|v}} Foug.
*287. '''[[大丽花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dahlia'''''|i}} Cav.
*288. '''[[鹿角草属]]''' {{Sm|(香茹属)}}　'''''Glossocardia''''' Cass.
*289. '''[[秋英属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cosmos'''''|v}} Cav.
*290. '''[[鬼针草属]]'''　'''''Bidens''''' L.
*291. '''[[金鸡菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coreopsis'''''|v}} L.
*292. '''[[沼菊属]]'''　'''''Enydra''''' Lour.
*293. '''[[黄顶菊属]]''' {{Sm|(黄菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Flaveria'''''|v}} Juss.
*294. '''[[香蝶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Porophyllum'''''|v}} Guett.
*295. '''[[香檬菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pectis'''''|v}} L.
*296. '''[[万寿菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tagetes'''''|v}} L.
*297. '''[[金毛菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dyssodia'''''|i}} Cav.
*298. '''[[星菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lindheimera'''''|i}} A. Gray & Engelm.
*299. '''[[松香草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Silphium'''''|i}} L.
*300. '''[[豚草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ambrosia'''''|v}} L.
*301. '''[[假苍耳属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclachaena'''''|v}} Fresen.
*302. '''[[银胶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Parthenium'''''|v}} L.
*303. '''[[苍耳属]]'''　'''''Xanthium''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[刺苍耳属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthoxanthium'''''|v}} (DC.) Fourr.
*304. '''[[小向日葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Helianthella'''''|i}} Torr. & A. Gray
*305. '''[[金纽扣属]]'''　'''''Acmella''''' Rich. ex Pers.
*306. '''[[向日葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Helianthus'''''|v}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚硬向日葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Harpalium'''''|v}} (Cass.) Cass.
*307. '''[[单花葵属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lagascea'''''|v}} Cav.
*308. '''[[肿柄菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tithonia'''''|v}} Desf. ex Juss.
*309. '''[[硬果菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sclerocarpus'''''|v}} Jacq.
*310. '''[[草光菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ratibida'''''|i}} Raf.
*311. '''[[金光菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Rudbeckia'''''|v}} L.
*312. '''[[蛇目菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sanvitalia'''''|v}} Lam.
*313. '''[[赛菊芋属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heliopsis'''''|i}} Pers.
*314. '''[[松果菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Echinacea'''''|i}} Moench
*315. '''[[百日菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Zinnia'''''|v}} L.
*316. '''[[伏金腰箭属]]''' {{Sm|(金腰箭舅属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Calyptocarpus'''''|v}} Less.
*317. '''[[金腰箭属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Synedrella'''''|v}} Gaertn.
*318. '''[[山蟛蜞菊属]]'''　'''''Indocypraea''''' Orchard
*319. '''[[离药菊属]]''' {{Sm|(离药金腰箭属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Eleutheranthera'''''|v}} Poit. ex Bosc
*320. '''[[鳢肠属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eclipta'''''|v}} L.
*321. '''[[蟛蜞菊属]]'''　'''''Sphagneticola''''' O. Hoffm.
*322. '''[[卤地菊属]]'''　'''''Melanthera''''' Rohr
*323. '''[[孪花菊属]]'''　'''''Wollastonia''''' DC. ex Decne.
*324. '''[[白头菊属]]''' {{Sm|(苏利南野菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Clibadium'''''|v}} F. Allam. ex L.
*325. '''[[羽芒菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tridax'''''|v}} L.
*326. '''[[牛膝菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Galinsoga'''''|v}} Ruiz & Pav.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[粗毛牛膝菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vasargia'''''|v}} Steud.
*327. '''[[豨莶属]]'''　'''''Sigesbeckia''''' L.
*328. '''[[小葵子属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Guizotia'''''|i}} Cass.
*329. '''[[包果菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Smallanthus'''''|v}} Mack.
*330. '''[[刺苞果属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Acanthospermum'''''|v}} Schrank
*331. '''[[黑足菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Melampodium'''''|i}} L.
*332. '''[[羊菊属]]''' {{Sm|(山金车属)}}　'''''Arnica''''' L.
*333. '''[[雪顶菊属]]''' {{Sm|(加州菊属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Layia'''''|i}} Hook. & Arn. ex DC.
*334. '''[[溪泽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Shinnersia'''''|i}} R. M. King & H. Rob.
*335. '''[[假泽兰属]]'''　'''''Mikania''''' Willd.
*336. '''[[甜叶菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Stevia'''''|i}} Cav.
*337. '''[[肋泽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Brickellia'''''|i}} Elliott
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Kuhnia'''''|i}} L.
*338. '''[[紫茎泽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ageratina'''''|v}} Spach
*339. '''[[喇叭泽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Eutrochium'''''|i}} Raf.
*340. '''[[泽兰属]]'''　'''''Eupatorium''''' L.
*341. '''[[蛇鞭菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Liatris'''''|i}} Gaertn. ex Schreb.
*342. '''[[飞机草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Chromolaena'''''|v}} DC.
*343. '''[[假臭草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Praxelis'''''|v}} Cass.
*344. '''[[锥托泽兰属]]''' {{Sm|(破坏草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Conoclinium'''''|v}} DC.
*345. '''[[藿香蓟属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ageratum'''''|v}} L.
*346. '''[[裸冠菊属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Gymnocoronis'''''|v}} DC.
*347. '''[[下田菊属]]'''　'''''Adenostemma''''' J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*348. '''[[南泽兰属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Austroeupatorium'''''|v}} R. M. King & H. Rob.
==129. 南鼠刺目　Escalloniales==
===523. [[南鼠刺科]]　Escalloniaceae R. Br. ex Dumort.===
*1. '''[[多香木属]]'''　'''''Polyosma''''' Blume
*2. '''[[银铃桂属]]''' {{Sm|(欧洲鼠刺属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Anopterus'''''|i}} Labill.
*3. '''[[南鼠刺属]]''' {{Sm|(南美鼠刺属，吊爿果属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Escallonia'''''|i}} Mutis ex L. f.
==130. 绒球花目　Bruniales==
===524. [[弯药树科]]　Columelliaceae D. Don===
*1. '''[[枸骨黄属]]''' {{Sm|(拉美冬青属，虎刺叶属，枸骨叶属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Desfontainia'''''|i}} Ruiz & Pav.
===525. [[绒球花科]]　Bruniaceae R. Br. ex DC.===
*1. '''[[绒盏花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Staavia'''''|i}} Dahl
*2. '''[[饰球花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Berzelia'''''|i}} Brongn.
*3. '''[[绒球花属]]''' {{Sm|(小叶树属，鳞叶树属，布龙氏树属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Brunia'''''|i}} Lam.
==131. 川续断目　Dipsacales==
===526. [[荚蒾科]]　Viburnaceae Raf.===
*1. '''[[荚蒾属]]'''　'''''Viburnum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧洲荚蒾属]]'''　'''''Opulus''''' Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[红蕾荚蒾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Solenolantana'''''|i}} Nakai
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[水红木属]]'''　'''''Solenotinus''''' (DC.) Spach
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[珊瑚树属]]'''　'''''Thyrsosma''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[地中海荚蒾属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Tinus'''''|i}} Mill.
*2. '''[[接骨木属]]'''　'''''Sambucus''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮接骨木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ebulus'''''|i}} Fabr.
*3. '''[[华福花属]]'''　'''''Sinadoxa''''' C. Y. Wu, Z. L. Wu & R. F. Huang
*4. '''[[四福花属]]'''　'''''Tetradoxa''''' C. Y. Wu
*5. '''[[五福花属]]'''　'''''Adoxa''''' L.
===527. [[忍冬科]]　Caprifoliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[黄锦带属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Diervilla'''''|i}} Mill.
*2. '''[[锦带花属]]'''　'''''Weigela''''' Thunb.
*3. '''[[七子花属]]'''　'''''Heptacodium''''' Rehder
*4. '''[[莛子藨属]]'''　'''''Triosteum''''' L.
*5. '''[[忍冬属]]'''　'''''Lonicera''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[杯苞忍冬属]]'''　'''''Devendraea''''' Pusalkar
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝果忍冬属]]'''　'''''Isika''''' Adans.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[蓝靛果属]]'''　'''''Metalonicera''''' M. Wang & A. G. Gu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[欧忍冬属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Periclymenum'''''|i}} Mill.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[贯月忍冬属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Phenianthus'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[金银木属]]'''　'''''Xylosteon''''' Mill.
*6. '''[[鬼吹箫属]]'''　'''''Leycesteria''''' Wall.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绵毛鬼吹箫属]]'''　'''''Pentapyxis''''' Hook. f.
*7. '''[[毛核木属]]''' {{Sm|(雪莓属，雪果属)}}　'''''Symphoricarpos''''' Duhamel
*8. '''[[北极花属]]''' {{Sm|(林奈木属，双花蔓属)}}　'''''Linnaea''''' Gronov. ex L.
*9. '''[[艳条花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Vesalea'''''|i}} M. Martens & Galeotti
*10. '''[[糯米条属]]'''　'''''Abelia''''' R. Br.
*11. '''[[猬实属]]'''　'''''Kolkwitzia''''' Graebn.
*12. '''[[双盾木属]]'''　'''''Dipelta''''' Maxim.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[云南双盾木属]]'''　'''''Cavaleriella''''' H. Lév.
*13. '''[[双六道木属]]'''　'''''Diabelia''''' Landrein
*14. '''[[六道木属]]'''　'''''Zabelia''''' (Rehder) Makino
*15. '''[[刺续断属]]'''　'''''Acanthocalyx''''' (DC.) Tiegh.
*16. '''[[刺参属]]'''　'''''Morina''''' L.
*17. '''[[蓟叶参属]]'''　'''''Cryptothladia''''' (Bunge) M. J. Cannon
*18. '''[[败酱属]]'''　'''''Patrinia''''' Juss.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[少蕊败酱属]]'''　'''''Clarkeifedia''''' Kuntze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩败酱属]]'''　'''''Fuisa''''' Raf.
*19. '''[[甘松属]]'''　'''''Nardostachys''''' DC.
*20. '''[[歧缬草属]]''' {{Sm|(新缬草属)}}　'''''Valerianella''''' Mill.
*21. '''[[距缬草属]]''' {{Sm|(距药草属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Centranthus'''''|i}} DC.
*22. '''[[缬草属]]'''　'''''Valeriana''''' L.
*23. '''[[双参属]]''' {{Sm|(囊苞花属)}}　'''''Triplostegia''''' Wall. ex DC.
*24. '''[[翼首花属]]'''　'''''Bassecoia''''' B. L. Burtt
*25. '''[[星首花属]]'''　'''''Lomelosia''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[禾叶星首花属]]'''　'''''Trochocephalus''''' (Mert. & W. D. J. Koch) Opiz ex Bercht.
*26. '''[[蓬首花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pterocephalus'''''|i}} Vaill. ex Adans.
*27. '''[[蒿盆花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sixalix'''''|i}} Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫盆花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyrtostemma'''''|i}} (Mert. & W. D. J. Koch) Spach
*28. '''[[蓝盆花属]]'''　'''''Scabiosa''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[黄盆花属]]'''　'''''Pentena''''' Raf.
*29. '''[[魔噬花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Succisa'''''|i}} Haller
*30. '''[[刺头草属]]''' {{Sm|(头序花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Cephalaria'''''|i}} Schrad. ex Roem. & Schult. f.
*31. '''[[川续断属]]'''　'''''Dipsacus''''' L.
*32. '''[[孀草属]]''' {{Sm|(裸盆花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Knautia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[田孀草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trichera'''''|i}} Schrad. ex Schult. & Schult. f.
==132. 伞形目　Apiales==
===528. [[鞘柄木科]]　Torricelliaceae Hu===
*1. '''[[鞘柄木属]]'''　'''''Torricellia''''' DC.
===529. [[南茱萸科]]　Griseliniaceae Takht.===
*1. '''[[南茱萸属]]''' {{Sm|(独子果属，夷茱萸属，覆瓣梾木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Griselinia'''''|i}} G. Forst.
===530. [[海桐科]]　Pittosporaceae R. Br.===
*1. '''[[海桐属]]''' {{Sm|(海桐花属)}}　'''''Pittosporum''''' Banks ex Gaertn.
*2. '''[[金海桐属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Auranticarpa'''''|i}} L. W. Cayzer, Crisp & I. Telford
*3. '''[[香荫树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Hymenosporum'''''|i}} R. Br. ex F. Muell.
*4. '''[[蓝藤莓属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝钟藤属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Sollya'''''|i}} Lindl.
*5. '''[[吊藤莓属]]''' {{Sm|(藤海桐属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Billardiera'''''|i}} Sm.
===531. [[五加科]]　Araliaceae Juss.===
*1. '''[[野绦花属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trachymene'''''|i}} Rudge
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[翠珠花属]]''' {{Sm|(蓝饰带花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Didiscus'''''|i}} DC. ex Hook.
*2. '''[[天胡荽属]]'''　'''''Hydrocotyle''''' L.
*3. '''[[南鹅掌柴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Schefflera'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*4. '''[[兰屿加属]]'''　'''''Osmoxylon''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[章鱼树属]]'''　'''''Boerlagiodendron''''' Harms
*5. '''[[人参属]]'''　'''''Panax''''' L.
*6. '''[[楤木属]]'''　'''''Aralia''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[湖南参属]]'''　'''''Hunaniopanax''''' C. J. Qi & T. R. Cao
*7. '''[[总羽叶参属]]'''　'''''Parapentapanax''''' Hutch.
*8. '''[[羽叶参属]]''' {{Sm|(五叶参属)}}　'''''Pentapanax''''' Seem.
*9. '''[[萸叶五加属]]'''　'''''Gamblea''''' C. B. Clarke
*10. '''[[常春木属]]'''　'''''Merrilliopanax''''' H. L. Li
*11. '''[[树参属]]'''　'''''Dendropanax''''' Decne. & Planch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三裂树参属]]'''　'''''Textoria''''' Miq.
*12. '''[[八角金盘属]]'''　'''''Fatsia''''' Decne. & Planch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[多室八角金盘属]]'''　'''''Diplofatsia''''' Nakai
*13. '''[[刺人参属]]''' {{Sm|(刺参属)}}　'''''Oplopanax''''' (Torr. & A. Gray) Miq.
*14. '''[[多蕊木属]]'''　'''''Tupidanthus''''' Hook. f. & Thomson
*15. '''[[大参属]]'''　'''''Macropanax''''' Miq.
*16. '''[[梁王茶属]]'''　'''''Metapanax''''' J. Wen & Frodin
*17. '''[[刺楸属]]'''　'''''Kalopanax''''' Miq.
*18. '''[[五加属]]'''　'''''Eleutherococcus''''' Maxim.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疏刺五加属]]'''　'''''Acanthopanax''''' (Decne. & Planch.) Witte
*19. '''[[番鹅掌柴属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Sciodaphyllum'''''|i}} P. Browne
*20. '''[[通脱木属]]'''　'''''Tetrapanax''''' (K. Koch) K. Koch
*21. '''[[幌伞枫属]]'''　'''''Heteropanax''''' Seem.
*22. '''[[鹅掌柴属]]'''　'''''Heptapleurum''''' Gaertn.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[总序鹅掌柴属]]'''　'''''Agalma''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[辐叶鹅掌柴属]]'''　'''''Brassaia''''' Endl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[头序鹅掌柴属]]'''　'''''Cephaloschefflera''''' (Harms) Merr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[坚鹅掌柴属]]'''　'''''Paratropia''''' DC.
*23. '''[[华参属]]'''　'''''Sinopanax''''' H. L. Li
*24. '''[[常春藤属]]'''　'''''Hedera''''' L.
*25. '''[[刺通草属]]'''　'''''Trevesia''''' Vis.
*26. '''[[罗伞属]]'''　'''''Brassaiopsis''''' Decne. & Planch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[掌叶树属]]'''　'''''Euaraliopsis''''' Hutch. ex Y. R. Ling
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[南星毛罗伞属]]'''　'''''Grushvitzkya''''' Skvortsova & Aver.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[浅裂罗伞属]]'''　'''''Pseudobrassaiopsis''''' R. N. Banerjee
*27. '''[[人参木属]]'''　'''''Chengiopanax''''' C. B. Shang & J. Y. Huang
*28. '''[[甘蓝树属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cussonia'''''|i}} Thunb. ex Thunb.
*29. '''[[矛木属]]''' {{Sm|(新树参属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Pseudopanax'''''|i}} C. Koch
*30. '''[[柳矛木属]]''' {{Sm|(澳洲常春木属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Meryta'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
*31. '''[[托伞木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Plerandra'''''|i}} A. Gray
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[孔雀木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Dizygotheca'''''|i}} N. E. Br.
*32. '''[[南洋参属]]''' {{Sm|(福禄桐属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Polyscias'''''|i}} J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.
===532. [[伞形科]]　Apiaceae Lindl.===
*1. '''[[绒苞芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Actinotus'''''|i}} Labill.
*2. '''[[蓝伞木属]]''' {{Sm|(参棕属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Mackinlaya'''''|i}} F. Muell.
*3. '''[[积雪草属]]'''　'''''Centella''''' L.
*4. '''[[马蹄芹属]]'''　'''''Dickinsia''''' Franch.
*5. '''[[星芹属]]''' {{Sm|(粉珠花属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Astrantia'''''|i}} L.
*6. '''[[刺芹属]]'''　'''''Eryngium''''' L.
*7. '''[[变豆菜属]]'''　'''''Sanicula''''' L.
*8. '''[[异芹木属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Heteromorpha'''''|i}} Cham. & Schltdl.
*9. '''[[柴胡属]]'''　'''''Bupleurum''''' L.
*10. '''[[簇苞芹属]]'''　'''''Pleurospermopsis''''' C. Norman
*11. '''[[矮泽芹属]]'''　'''''Chamaesium''''' H. Wolff
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[聂拉木矮泽芹属]]'''　'''''Dolpojestella''''' Farille & Lachard
*12. '''[[棱子芹属]]'''　'''''Pleurospermum''''' Hoffm.
*13. '''[[滇藁本属]]'''　'''''Hymenidium''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[天山滇藁本属]]'''　'''''Renarda''''' Regel
*14. '''[[瘤果芹属]]'''　'''''Trachydium''''' Lindl.
*15. '''[[环根芹属]]'''　'''''Cyclorhiza''''' M. L. Sheh & R. H. Shan
*16. '''[[明党参属]]'''　'''''Changium''''' H. Wolff
*17. '''[[川明参属]]'''　'''''Chuanminshen''''' M. L. Sheh & R. H. Shan
*18. '''[[北羌活属]]'''　'''''Hansenia''''' Turcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[羌活属]]'''　'''''Notopterygium''''' H. Boissieu
*19. '''[[单球芹属]]'''　'''''Haplosphaera''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*20. '''[[滇芎属]]'''　'''''Physospermopsis''''' H. Wolff
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[全叶滇芎属]]'''　'''''Haploseseli''''' H. Wolff & Hand.-Mazz.
*21. '''[[舟瓣芹属]]'''　'''''Sinolimprichtia''''' H. Wolff
*22. '''[[东俄芹属]]'''　'''''Tongoloa''''' H. Wolff
*23. '''[[膜苞芹属]]'''　'''''Hymenolaena''''' DC.
*24. '''[[齐肋芹属]]'''　'''''Keraymonia''''' Farille
*25. '''[[水芹属]]'''　'''''Oenanthe''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短辐水芹属]]'''　'''''Dasyloma''''' DC.
*26. '''[[毒芹属]]'''　'''''Cicuta''''' L.
*27. '''[[鸭儿芹属]]'''　'''''Cryptotaenia''''' DC.
*28. '''[[泽芹属]]'''　'''''Sium''''' L.
*29. '''[[天山泽芹属]]'''　'''''Berula''''' W. D. J. Koch
*30. '''[[水毯草属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Lilaeopsis'''''|i}} Greene
*31. '''[[丝裂芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ptilimnium'''''|v}} Raf.
*32. '''[[弓翅芹属]]'''　'''''Arcuatopterus''''' M. L. Sheh & R. H. Shan
*33. '''[[山芎属]]'''　'''''Kreidion''''' Raf.
*34. '''[[丝瓣芹属]]'''　'''''Acronema''''' Falc. ex Edgew.
*35. '''[[三叶前胡属]]''' {{Sm|(盐小伞芹属)}}　'''''Halosciastrum''''' Koidz.
*36. '''[[细裂芹属]]'''　'''''Harrysmithia''''' H. Wolff
*37. '''[[藁本属]]'''　'''''Ligusticum''''' L.
*38. '''[[蓍叶滇芹属]]''' {{Sm|(藏香叶芹属)}}　'''''Meeboldia''''' H. Wolff
*39. '''[[羽苞芹属]]'''　'''''Oreocomopsis''''' Pimenov & Kljuykov
*40. '''[[厚棱芹属]]'''　'''''Pachypleurum''''' Ledeb.
*41. '''[[囊瓣芹属]]'''　'''''Pternopetalum''''' Franch.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[五匹青属]]'''　'''''Cryptotaeniopsis''''' Dunn
*42. '''[[翅棱芹属]]'''　'''''Pterygopleurum''''' Kitag.
*43. '''[[岩茴香属]]'''　'''''Rupiphila''''' Pimenov & Lavrova
*44. '''[[小芹属]]'''　'''''Sinocarum''''' H. Wolff ex R. H. Shan & F. T. Pu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[裂瓣芹属]]'''　'''''Dactylaea''''' Fedde ex H. Wolff
*45. '''[[大叶芹属]]'''　'''''Spuriopimpinella''''' (H. Boissieu) Kitag.
*46. '''[[黑水芹属]]''' {{Sm|(第苓芹属)}}　'''''Tilingia''''' Regel & Tiling
*47. '''[[孜然芹属]]'''　'''''Cuminum''''' L.
*48. '''[[金毒芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Thapsia'''''|i}} L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[油蛇床属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Elaeoselinum'''''|i}} W. D. J. Koch ex DC.
*49. '''[[苍耳芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Orlaya'''''|i}} Hoffm.
*50. '''[[胡萝卜属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Daucus'''''|v}} L.
*51. '''[[阿魏属]]'''　'''''Ferula''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[准噶尔阿魏属]]'''　'''''Dardanis''''' Raf.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[簇花芹属]]'''　'''''Soranthus''''' Ledeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[球根阿魏属]]'''　'''''Schumannia''''' Kuntze
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[伊犁芹属]]'''　'''''Talassia''''' Korovin
*52. '''[[迷果芹属]]'''　'''''Sphallerocarpus''''' Besser ex DC.
*53. '''[[细叶芹属]]'''　'''''Chaerophyllum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山茉莉芹属]]'''　'''''Oreomyrrhis''''' Endl.
*54. '''[[针果芹属]]'''　'''''Scandix''''' L.
*55. '''[[香根芹属]]'''　'''''Osmorhiza''''' Raf.
*56. '''[[鳞苞芹属]]'''　'''''Kozlovia''''' Lipsky
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[块茎芹属]]'''　'''''Krasnovia''''' Popov ex Schischk. & Bobrov
*57. '''[[峨参属]]'''　'''''Anthriscus''''' Pers.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[雪维菜属]]'''　'''''Cerefolium''''' Fabr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[岩芹属]]'''　'''''Oreochorte''''' Koso-Pol.
*58. '''[[窃衣属]]'''　'''''Torilis''''' Adans.
*59. '''[[刺果芹属]]'''　'''''Turgenia''''' Hoffm.
*60. '''[[芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Apium'''''|i}} L.
*61. '''[[莳萝属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Anethum'''''|i}} L.
*62. '''[[茴香属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Foeniculum'''''|i}} Mill.
*63. '''[[欧芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Petroselinum'''''|v}} Hill
*64. '''[[阿米芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Ammi'''''|i}} L.
*65. '''[[滇藏细叶芹属]]'''　'''''Chaerophyllopsis''''' H. Boissieu
*66. '''[[绵果芹属]]'''　'''''Cachrys''''' L.
*67. '''[[绒果芹属]]''' {{Sm|(滇羌活属)}}　'''''Eriocycla''''' Lindl.
*68. '''[[栓翅芹属]]'''　'''''Prangos''''' Lindl.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[隐盘芹属]]'''　'''''Neocryptodiscus''''' Hedge & Lamond
*69. '''[[羊角芹属]]'''　'''''Aegopodium''''' L.
*70. '''[[丛羊角芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Aegokeras'''''|i}} Raf.
*71. '''[[葛缕子属]]'''　'''''Carum''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[矮伞芹属]]'''　'''''Chamaesciadium''''' C. A. Mey.
*72. '''[[毒参属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Conium'''''|v}} L.
*73. '''[[芫荽属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Coriandrum'''''|i}} L.
*74. '''[[齿签芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Visnaga'''''|i}} Mill.
*75. '''[[隐棱芹属]]'''　'''''Aphanopleura''''' Boiss.
*76. '''[[白苞芹属]]'''　'''''Nothosmyrnium''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[大苞芹属]]'''　'''''Macrochlaena''''' Hand.-Mazz.
*77. '''[[茴芹属]]'''　'''''Pimpinella''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[异叶茴芹属]]'''　'''''Platyrhaphe''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[三叶茴芹属]]'''　'''''Trachysciadium''''' (DC.) Eckl. & Zeyh.
*78. '''[[丝叶芹属]]'''　'''''Scaligeria''''' DC.
*79. '''[[田葛缕子属]]'''　'''''Chlamydocarum''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*80. '''[[天山苞裂芹属]]'''　'''''Puocarum''''' Su Liu & Bing Liu
*81. '''[[苞裂芹属]]'''　'''''Schulzia''''' Spreng.
*82. '''[[东栗芹属]]'''　'''''Elwendia''''' Boiss.
*83. '''[[斑膜芹属]]'''　'''''Hyalolaena''''' Bunge
*84. '''[[糙果芹属]]'''　'''''Trachyspermum''''' Link
*85. '''[[细叶旱芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Cyclospermum'''''|v}} Lag.
*86. '''[[双球芹属]]'''　'''''Schrenkia''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
*87. '''[[亮蛇床属]]'''　'''''Selinum''''' L.
*88. '''[[缘果芹属]]'''　'''''Lomatocarpa''''' Pimenov
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[疆母芹属]]'''　'''''Alposelinum''''' Pimenov
*89. '''[[西风芹属]]''' {{Sm|(邪蒿属)}}　'''''Seseli''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[毛序西风芹属]]'''　'''''Lomatopodium''''' Fisch. & C. A. Mey.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[劲直西风芹属]]'''　'''''Pseudammi''''' H. Wolff
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[碗子芹属]]'''　'''''Scaphespermum''''' Edgew.
*90. '''[[山茴香属]]'''　'''''Carlesia''''' Dunn
*91. '''[[喜峰芹属]]'''　'''''Cortia''''' DC.
*92. '''[[栓果芹属]]'''　'''''Cortiella''''' C. Norman
*93. '''[[鞘颈芹属]]'''　'''''Ferulopsis''''' Kitag.
*94. '''[[镰叶前胡属]]'''　'''''Haloselinum''''' Pimenov
*95. '''[[石防风属]]'''　'''''Kitagawia''''' Pimenov
*96. '''[[岩风属]]'''　'''''Libanotis''''' Haller ex Zinn
*97. '''[[裂苞藁本属]]'''　'''''Ligusticopsis''''' Leute
*98. '''[[胀果芹属]]'''　'''''Phlojodicarpus''''' Turcz. ex Ledeb.
*99. '''[[防风属]]'''　'''''Saposhnikovia''''' Schischk.
*100. '''[[当归属]]'''　'''''Angelica''''' L.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[熊当归属]]'''　'''''Angelophyllum''''' Rupr.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白芷属]]'''　'''''Callisace''''' Fisch. ex Hoffm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[高山芹属]]'''　'''''Coelopleurum''''' Ledeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[柳叶芹属]]'''　'''''Czernaevia''''' Turcz. ex Ledeb.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[绿花山芹属]]'''　'''''Gomphopetalum''''' Turcz.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[白山芹属]]'''　'''''Homopteryx''''' Kitag.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫伞芹属]]'''　'''''Melanosciadium''''' H. Boissieu
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[山芹属]]'''　'''''Ostericum''''' Hoffm.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[紫花前胡属]]'''　'''''Porphyroscias''''' Miq.
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[拐芹属]]'''　'''''Rompelia''''' Koso-Pol.
*101. '''[[蛇床属]]'''　'''''Cnidium''''' Cusson
*102. '''[[疆前胡属]]'''　'''''Peucedanum''''' L.
*103. '''[[欧白芷属]]''' {{Sm|(古当归属)}}　'''''Archangelica''''' Wolf
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[短茎欧白芷属]]'''　'''''Angelocarpa''''' Rupr.
*104. '''[[珊瑚菜属]]'''　'''''Glehnia''''' F. Schmidt ex Miq.
*105. '''[[冈底斯芹属]]'''　'''''Kailashia''''' Pimenov & Kljuykov
*106. '''[[泡棱芹属]]'''　'''''Ledebouriella''''' H. Wolff
*107. '''[[毛棱芹属]]'''　'''''Pilopleura''''' Schischk.
*108. '''[[狭腔芹属]]'''　'''''Stenocoelium''''' Ledeb.
*109. '''[[磨石芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Trinia'''''|i}} Hoffm.
*110. '''[[凹乳芹属]]'''　'''''Vicatia''''' DC.
*111. '''[[芹薯属]]''' {{Sm|(秘鲁胡萝卜属)}}　{{Nt|'''''Arracacia'''''|i}} Bancr.
*112. '''[[空棱芹属]]'''　'''''Cenolophium''''' W. D. J. Koch
*113. '''[[鞘山芎属]]'''　'''''Conioselinum''''' Fisch. ex Hoffm.
*114. '''[[欧当归属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Levisticum'''''|i}} Hill
*115. '''[[石蛇床属]]'''　'''''Lithosciadium''''' Turcz.
*116. '''[[滇羌活属]]''' {{Sm|(翼轮芹属)}}　'''''Pterocyclus''''' Klotzsch
*117. '''[[西归芹属]]''' {{Sm|(天山邪蒿属)}}　'''''Seselopsis''''' Schischk.
*118. '''[[亮叶芹属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Silaum'''''|v}} Mill.
*119. '''[[滇芹属]]'''　'''''Sinodielsia''''' H. Wolff
*120. '''[[独活属]]'''　'''''Heracleum''''' L.
*121. '''[[欧防风属]]'''　{{Nt|'''''Pastinaca'''''|i}} L.
*122. '''[[大瓣芹属]]'''　'''''Semenovia''''' Regel & Herder
::{{Sy|hg}} '''[[宽带芹属]]''' {{Sm|(阔带芹属)}}　'''''Neoplatytaenia''''' Geld.
*123. '''[[四带芹属]]'''　'''''Tetrataenium''''' (DC.) Manden.
*124. '''[[阔翅芹属]]'''　'''''Tordyliopsis''''' DC.
*125. '''[[艾叶芹属]]'''　'''''Zosima''''' Hoffm.
*{{Nt|本页面共计532科，5996属。|e}}
*{{Nt|返回　'''[[中国植物物种名录]]'''　主页面|e}}
